https://towardsdatascience.com/covid19-is-the-situation-in-spain-and-italy-particularly-critical-ca869a3d6bda?source=collection_category---4------1-----------------------
COVID19 — Is the situation in Spain and Italy particularly critical? Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute COVID19 — Is the situation in Spain and Italy particularly critical? Information graphics and statistics on COVID19 Andreas Stöckl Follow Mar 26 · 4 min read This article shows, with some information graphs and statistics, anomalies in the ratio of mortality rates and the number of serious cases for Italy and Spain. In these two countries, too many people die in relation to the number of serious cases reported. How can this be explained? (data source: https://www.worldometers.info, graphic: www.stoeckl.ai) The danger of the COVID19 virus has been and still is much talked and written about. On the one hand, they try to derive statements from statistical data, on the other hand, reports in the media and through private contacts describe the situation and drama of individuals. So everybody is already familiar with reports, for example, that of an Italian doctor has been confronted. But also in the private sphere, the reports of experiences are accumulating, which contradicts the still circulating reports of the kind “Is only another flu”. The following statistics should therefore not be used to trivialize the situation. As a statistician, I would like to address some questions that arise about the differences between countries in mortality and the proportion of severe cases. As a data source I use: https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/ Were the data, for a large number of countries, is kept up-to-date: number of cases, severe cases, current cases number of new cases number of dead and new deaths number of convalescences case and death rates per million population (Time of evaluation: 26.3. 14:30) For the countries with many cases, the following bar chart shows the percentage of cases reported as serious. The color of the bar indicates the number of cases in the country so far, the darker the more cases. (data source: https://www.worldometers.info, graphic: www.stoeckl.ai) Of course, the extremely large differences between countries like France (over 11% of cases are classified as severe) and countries like Germany (only 0.06%) are striking. Where do these differences come from? The issue of differences in death rates has been widely discussed in the press and in articles. The medium article deals with the case of Italy compared to South Korea. The analysis focuses on the differences in the age structure of the countries and the age structure of the patients. The discussion of a scientific study deals with the mortality rate and the differences in the age structure of China and Italy. The Austrian press discusses many reasons, as in this article. Typically Austrian is the approach which, due to the hot spot in “Ischgl” and the spread from there, the low death rate in Austria and countries with ski tourists in Austria, can be attributed to the large proportion of young healthy skiers. The Swiss Press deals with two factors, on the one hand, the differences in the age structure and on the other hand the health care system. German media brings into play not only the age structure and the health care system but also the different testing methods of the countries. As my bar chart shows, there is not only a big difference in mortality between countries but also in the proportion of severe cases. This may have the same reasons that I have just listed. But there should be a clear connection between the proportion of serious cases and the death rate. If there are many serious cases, there should be many deaths. Look at the scatter plot including the regression line at the beginning of the article. The data for Italy and Spain lie outside the data from all other countries in this presentation. The mortality rate is far too high in relation to the proportion of severe cases. For all other countries considered, the points lie more or less a straight line (linear relationship). Can this be explained only by the poorer health care systems in Italy and Spain? Or is it an indication that the situation in these two countries is so critical that seriously ill people cannot receive adequate care? Finally, take a look at the distribution of the proportion of critical cases on a map of the world. (data source: https://www.worldometers.info, graphic: www.stoeckl.ai) The highest proportion of severe cases (orange) is mainly found in Europe. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 3 Data Science Covid 19 Data Visualization 3 claps Written by Andreas Stöckl Follow University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria / School of Informatics, Communications and Media http://www.stoeckl.ai/profil/ Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (2) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
