https://towardsdatascience.com/5-premium-courses-you-can-access-for-free-this-month-c6d74a04d79b?source=collection_category---4------2-----------------------
5 Premium Courses You Can Access For Free This Month Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute 5 Premium Courses You Can Access For Free This Month Udacity offers one month of a premium degree for free, supporting Covid-19 crisis. Liana Mehrabyan Follow Mar 27 · 3 min read Photo by freddie marriage on Unsplash Being in quarantine can be challenging, but it spares us a great amount of time to focus on self-development and brush up our skills as data scientists. To support professionals during these times, Udacity gives one-month free access to a premium Nanodegree program of your choice (note: the offer holds for Europe and US only). Now, these programs usually take a few months to complete, but given current circumstances, I’m sure you can invest more time and grasp the essentials in a month. The course catalogue spans around AI, Data Science, Programming, Autonomous Systems, Business and more. In this post, I’ve highlighted 5 courses that I think would be the most beneficial to invest in. 1. Intro to ML with Pytorch If you’ve previously worked with Python but don’t feel comfortable with Machine Learning algorithms yet, this course is probably a good fit. It covers the building blocks of Machine Learning and will give you a chance to get hands-on experience with real-life applications. Intro to Machine Learning with Pytorch Course | Udacity Prerequisite Knowledge To optimize your chances of success in this program, we recommend intermediate Python… www.udacity.com 2. Data Visualization This is my personal favourite. Storytelling with data is an essential skill for all of us. To deliver our message and achieve impact, we need clear communication. And effective visuals are a go-to. This course answers to questions like how to choose the right plot type, what are effective dashboards and how to make your story persuasive. You even get to create an animated data story (a good investment in your portfolio). Data Visualization Online Course | Udacity Learn to combine data, visuals, and narrative to tell impactful stories and make data-driven decisions. Learn online… www.udacity.com 3. Natural Language Processing Created in collaboration with Amazon Alexa and IBM Watson, this course starts with NLP basics and ends with building a speech recognizer as its final project. Natural Language Processing Online Course | Udacity To succeed in this Nanodegree program, we recommend you first take any course in Deep Learning equivalent to our Deep… www.udacity.com 4. Artificial Intelligence for Trading Now, I’m not a finance expert, but this seems to be a very comprehensive course on trading and portfolio management. Artificial Intelligence for Trading | Udacity Complete real-world projects designed by industry experts, covering topics from asset management to trading signal… www.udacity.com 5. Introduction to Marketing Analytics This one’s a quite relevant course for the current job market. You’ll get to extend your Google Analytics skills and get tailored data science skills for marketing campaign monitoring and management. Marketing Analytics Online Course | Udacity The Marketing Analytics Nanodegree program is comprised of content and curriculum to support eight (8) projects. We… www.udacity.com Last but not least: courses on career tips If you’re in a job hunt, these courses could be a useful resource for your interview prep process: Machine Learning Interview Preparation | Udacity In this course, you'll learn exactly what to expect during a machine learning interview. You'll cover all the common… www.udacity.com Data Science Interview Prep | Udacity Data science job interviews can be daunting. Technical interviewers often ask you to design an experiment or model. You… www.udacity.com Refresh Your Resume | Udacity Your resume is the first step in the job search. Through this course, you will identify the companies you want to work… www.udacity.com That’s about it! Hope you find this useful. Stay home, stay safe, stay productive. Photo by Álvaro Serrano on Unsplash -Keep Exploring Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 225 Data Science Machine Learning Towards Data Science Udacity Data Visualization 225 claps Written by Liana Mehrabyan Follow Hi there, I’m a Data Scientist focused on social DS. Learning and sharing insights as I explore education, music, literature and more through data. Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (3) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
