https://towardsdatascience.com/5-tips-to-stop-doing-bar-charts-wrong-3aac8e3bfcd6?source=collection_category---4------3-----------------------
5 Tips to Stop Doing Bar Charts Wrong - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute 5 Tips to Stop Doing Bar Charts Wrong Communicate your data more effectively Andre Ye Follow Mar 26 · 6 min read Bar charts were probably the first type of chart you were ever introduced to in first grade. Their simplicity makes them a standard in visualizing data, but it is its accessibility that leads visualizers to often be careless with bar charts. Bar charts are one of the most basic forms of data representation — a continuous variable against a discrete variable — but they are so often presented in ways that could be significantly improved. In this article, I’ll present five tips you can use to make your bar plot deliver the message it intends to more effectively. 1 | Be careful how you color your charts. Colors are essential in any chart. They can convey meaning and draw attention to certain parts of the data. Don’t use vibrant colors for data that conveys the same meaning. Instead, the bars should be similar shades of a color, for example, in the chart below, and can convey a meaning. Because, in this case, the x-axis should not be moved around to sort the bars by greatest-to-smallest or smallest-to-greatest (the optimal presentation), colors can be used to put more emphasis on how bars perform relative to other bars, even when they are not in lateral comparison to each other. Don’t use a color palette that has the same color but too drastic a change in shade. The below plot’s dark color for E makes comparison with A difficult. Don’t use colors for thematic representation, like red and green to show Christmas sales: This can be corny and confusing in the cases where the color pattern interferes with traditional color understandings, such as in column E, when the red sub-bar is higher than the green one. Colors can also be used to put emphasis on certain bars, such as the highest and lowest values. In this case, by using a dimmed, grey value for the values in-between, the audience is much more drawn to columns A and E. The red color for A and the green color for E make it clear which one performs better (in scenarios where lower is better, A and E should have switched colors). When choosing colors, many of the ready-to-use palettes in plotting libraries like seaborn will suffice, but if you want to do things like choosing the exact color of particular bars, you will need to give the plotting library the hex code for that color. A particularly helpful resource for choosing them is w3school’s HTML color picker. Usually, the boxed region is a good place to choose your colors — anything lower or higher is usually either too light, too saturated, or too dark. Only use one main color (wherever you choose your color in the hexagon to the left), and choose various percentages of that color — it will make your plot look a lot smoother and cleaner. However, be careful what colors you choose. For example, this color is neon-green and much too bright. A bright bar is difficult for the audience to look at — your colors should always be muted, conservative, and easygoing on the eyes. Usually, picking colors on the rims of the hexagon and choosing lighter percentages will yield favorable colors. 2 | Stop rotating your axis labels. Your job as a data visualizer is to make the main idea or insight clear to the audience — it’s not their job to understand your plot. The reasoning behind rotating the axis labels is that when they are too long, they begin to overlap: So they’re usually rotated 90 degrees. That is pure blasphemy! Reading the labels requires either turning your head 90 degrees or thinking in a tilted dimension, then reverting back to a horizontal tilt to evaluate the position of the bars. Turning the labels 45 degrees is no better. Because almost all plotting libraries rotate labels at their center, it’s difficult to point out which label correlates with which bar when AAA…’s label is pointing to BBB’s bar. All of these problems can simply be avoided with a horizontal bar chart with a background grid to further assist in easy comparison. Much better! The labels are clear and comparison is as easy as a vertical bar plot. 3 | Don’t use negative values on a horizontal bar chart. Negative values on a horizontal bar chart are never as effective as negative values on a vertical bar chart. Left and right are never correlated with negative and positive (respectively), but up and down are. An up-down model accented by deeper shades for greater absolute values are much for effective and powerful. 4 | Never, ever have two-way horizontal bar charts. Demographic charts often like to plot two-way horizontal bar charts. This is a very, very bad idea — humans simply cannot compare bar lengths that are opposite each other. In addition, humans have biases to certain directions: if a bar length is too close to call, usually humans will instinctively think the right one is longer. In category B, one of the bars is 5% longer than the other. Can you spot which? Instead, to compare, a vertical and lateral comparison will serve the purpose much better. It is more obvious now that the Male sub bar is longer than the Female sub bar. Plotting these out vertically makes comparison much easier. 5 | Truncation is distortion. Sometimes, visualizers will truncate, or cut off part of the bottom, of a chart, in the case that the difference between bars is trivial. This is a distortion of the actual data. Even with the y labels, humans instinctively set the bottom as the baseline, and hence, make assumptions about the relative size of the bars based on the zero baseline. D is 3 to four times smaller than C, and C about 1.3 times B, the average person’s mind would instinctively assert, even with the labels. Numbers are never as powerful as shapes; this is the fundamental premise of visualization. The complete, untruncated data tells an entirely different story. If you are concerned about the difference between bars not being expressed clearly enough, the figure can be stretched out vertically: This amplifies differences onto a larger scale without taking away from the full picture — always start at the 0 baseline. Thanks for reading! Better visualizations equate to better understanding of the data — and when everyone has that, we can make more data-driven decisions. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 28 Data Science Data Data Visualization Visualization Data Analysis 28 claps Written by Andre Ye Follow Inspired by AI, driven by data. — — https://www.linkedin.com/in/andre-ye-501746150/ Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (1) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
