https://towardsdatascience.com/what-could-a-future-of-ai-augmented-infectious-disease-surveillance-look-like-1950363ebb2c?source=collection_category---4------0-----------------------
What Could a Future of AI-augmented Infectious Disease Surveillance Look Like? Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Anyone can publish on Medium per our Policies, but we don’t fact-check every story. For more info about the coronavirus, see cdc.gov. What Could a Future of AI-augmented Infectious Disease Surveillance Look Like? And how close are we to this today? Nicole Wheeler Follow Mar 20 · 9 min read Before the Covid-19 pandemic, an estimated 40 million flights, carrying almost 5 billion people were estimated to operate globally in 2020. This number is growing year upon year, meaning that if a new infectious strain of a disease emerges, it can spread locally and internationally at a speed and scale not seen in the past. Despite enormous technological advances over the past few centuries, infectious diseases still threaten global health. The possibility of the rapid, unexpected spread of an infectious agent across the world has become much higher, due to increasing globalisation. Rapid urbanization, an increase in international travel and trade, and the modification of agriculture and environmental changes have increased the spread of vector populations, putting more people at risk. The number of aircraft in the air at one time. Source: https://www.flightradar24.com/ As we start to envision how outbreak prevention could look in the future, automatic sharing and pooling of data is a critical part of better understanding events of concern as they arise. Having an automated “event noticer”, that’s able to scan through volumes of data at a rate that humans couldn’t, and flag concerning patterns would make this process more sensitive and efficient. To prevent the spread of outbreaks, we need to know which diseases are where, what rate they’re spreading at, and how they’re spreading. This involves pulling together knowledge from hospitals, GPs, and community health workers across different locations. Piecing together the spread of a disease across a region often requires communication between sites, which only happens if people are particularly concerned. This can be a non-trivial task when electronic notes are not always taken and are often not interoperable. But, increasing urgency for the move to digital healthcare triggered by COVID-19 could put us in a better position to leverage this data in the future. How Has the Coronavirus Crisis Impacted Digital Healthcare in the UK? The risk/benefit equation for embracing new digital technologies has been turned on its head medium.com What can big data tell us? If collected in the right way, large amounts of data on patients, their movements, the genome sequences of pathogens, treatment resistance and other factors could answer some important questions. The list below isn’t exhaustive, but rather covers some of the things that I’ve been thinking about recently: Which hosts can a pathogen infect? Most of the major diseases that have caused epidemics or pandemics are the result of a pathogen jumping from another animal to us. The ability to infect humans is a trait that is encoded in the DNA of the pathogen, so if we have enough information we should be able to design algorithms that predict the host range of a pathogen based on their DNA. An example of work in this area is machine learning algorithms that try to predict which animal a case of human food poisoning could have come from. Normally if a lot of people report food poisoning at once, an outbreak is suspected. This is especially true if we have DNA sequencing to confirm that the bacteria or virus infecting everyone is the same and all the isolates are closely related. Salmonella is a common cause of food poisoning, that can enter the food chain from a range of animal sources, as well as through contamination of other food products with animal faeces (e.g. salad greens). Several groups are building machine learning models to try to link mutations in the DNA of salmonella to particular animal populations, which would allow us to more effectively identify the source of contaminated food. See below for more info: Outbreak Tracing: a Battle of the Bots An analysis of two recent machine learning algorithms for tracing the source of food poisoning medium.com People are already doing some cool work looking at coronaviruses to see which others could jump into humans like SARS, MERS and 2019-nCoV have. They are also looking at which animals could act as reservoirs or experimental systems for the new coronavirus. The coolest part of this work is using citizen science and our understanding of how the new coronavirus interacts with our cells to design new treatments for the virus. Currently, this work is involving a combination of lab work and computational work using visualisation and human judgement, but with improving abilities to model protein structures computationally, this work could be digitally automated in the future. What Makes the New Coronavirus Able to Infect Humans? And how can we identify the next pandemic threat? medium.com How dangerous is a given pathogen? In some cases, you can look at a virus or bacteria and see if they’re more contagious or deadly than usual. For example, we can look for toxins carried by bacteria that we know cause severe symptoms in infected people, or we can use more sophisticated machine-learning methods to look for signs that a particular strain is more dangerous, based on examples of dangerous strains we’ve seen in the past. Modern surveillance tools can assess the risk posed by bacteria around the world, based on their genome sequence: see this article Bacteria That Cause Bloodstream Infections in Africa are Resistant to Nearly All Drugs Machine learning is helping us discover high-risk diseases faster medium.com Which treatments will be effective in curing an infection? Antimicrobial resistance is a growing threat to public health. We’re increasingly seeing strains of disease that have adapted to the healthcare setting, where antibiotics are ubiquitous, or to community settings where people self-medicate with antimicrobials frequently. Prescribing the wrong antibiotic encourages the spread of resistance and leads to a patient suffering needlessly and potentially dying of a treatable infection. Many researchers like me are exploring ways of predicting which antibiotics will work and which won’t to treat a specific infection using machine learning methods. But, machine learning algorithms can be prone to bias or perform worse on under-represented groups. To learn more about how we build and test these algorithms, see below: Should Machine Learning Algorithms Guide Antibiotic Prescribing? Machine learning could solve the antibiotic resistance crisis. Will they behave well in the real world? towardsdatascience.com Building Machine Learning Models for Predicting Antibiotic Resistance A run-down on my first workshop introducing computer science students to antibiotic resistance prediction with ML towardsdatascience.com How might a new disease spread? The use of flight data and data from cellphones can tell us about how people are moving around, and therefore how quickly a disease could spread to other areas. One study, as part of a citizen science project aided by the BBC, used an app to collect people’s movement and contact data over 24 hours to simulate how an outbreak of pandemic flu might spread across the UK. This data allowed the researchers to contrast strategies of controlling the outbreak, and see what would be effective. Image from this study “In an emergency, having accurate information makes all the difference,” says Massaro. “That’s why phone location data is better than annual census records. The problem is that the data is owned by private companies. We need to think seriously about changing the law around accessing this kind of information — not just for scientific research, but for wider prevention and public health reasons.” Facebook are also involved in this work, producing high-quality population density maps using satellite imagery and census data, and sharing aggregated user data with academics to help them monitor the effects of major disasters and infectious diseases: Disaster Maps - Facebook Data for Good Disaster Maps use statistical techniques to maintain individuals' privacy. For example, we only share de-identified… dataforgood.fb.com How is a known disease spreading? Usually, identifying people at risk of having contracted the disease requires contact tracing, where people with the disease are interviewed and asked to remember everyone they were in contact with. It’s estimated that 46% of all transmissions of COVID-19 come from people who are infected but haven’t shown any symptoms yet. Because of this, and the fallibility of our own memories, relying on patient recall tends to do a poor job of correctly tracing all infections and preventing further transmission. In the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, several countries have released phone apps for better tracking the spread of the disease in real-time. The release of these apps is generating a lot of trade-offs around the amount and quality of data, privacy, individual autonomy and data security that we will likely be grappling with after the pandemic is over. China has released an extension to the popular WeChat app, which collects user movement and coronavirus diagnosis data. An AI algorithm analyses this data and gives each person a colour-coded risk assessment, with red relating to two-week quarantine, orange meaning possibly staying at home for 7 days and green allowing free movement of the individual. The app uses proximity sensing between phones, co-location by GPS, and QR code scanning at the entrance and exit of buildings inaccessible to phones to assess people’s potential exposure to the virus. The basis of the score hasn’t been explained, creating frustration for people asked to self-isolate with no clear reason why. China has a history of using major events, such as the 2008 Beijing Olympics and the 2010 World Expo in Shanghai, to introduce new monitoring tools that extend beyond their original stated purpose. A New York Times analysis of the COVID-19 software’s code found that the system appears to share information about users with the police. When a user grants the app access to their personal data, a piece of code labelled “reportInfoAndLocationToPolice” sends the person’s location, city name and an identifying code number to a server. These sorts of privacy and social control concerns could potentially put people off using these apps, especially in countries where citizens expect a high degree of privacy. Singapore has an alternative, which encourages citizens to install the app to volunteer in helping contact tracing. The authorities stress that the use of the app is voluntary and that users have to give “explicit consent” to participate in TraceTogether. According to GovTech, who developed the app, this consent can be withdrawn anytime. The app works by exchanging short-distance Bluetooth signals between phones to detect other users of the app who are in close proximity. The app takes steps to protect users’ privacy, by periodically generating new anonymous IDs to share between devices. This would prevent malicious actors from eavesdropping on this information and tracing someone’s movements over time. The app also doesn’t collect location data, only proximity to other app users. Critically, records of these contacts are stored locally in the users’ phones and will not be sent to the authorities, however, if users are asked to share their data by the Ministry of Health as part of contact tracing investigations and they refuse, they may be prosecuted under the Infectious Diseases Act. One example of an app’s workflow, being developed by researchers in the UK. Link Other countries are in the process of developing their own apps, with different levels of care given to user privacy and data governance. While these apps may have been far more useful several months ago, and are likely a while away from public release and wide adoption, they may have a big influence on future disease outbreaks. One concern for countries like the US and the UK is the fact that many groups are developing apps at the same time, and if they are all released, each app may only capture a portion of the population. There will likely need to be some coordination by local government to make sure enough data are being gathered in the same place. Many labs around the world are currently shut down due to the risk of passing on the infection, but computational experiments are free to carry on. The emergence of this pandemic at a point in time where “big data” and “AI” are growing components of research programs around the world may act as a catalyst to focus everyone’s attention on this area and speed up the adoption of technologies that will limit the spread of infectious diseases in the future. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 59 Health Artificial Intelligence Data Science Covid 19 Technology 59 claps Written by Nicole Wheeler Follow Bioinformatician/data scientist @ the Centre for Genomic Pathogen Surveillance, building machine learning algorithms for the detection of antibiotic resistance Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Write the first response Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
