https://towardsdatascience.com/what-is-natural-language-processing-86a7123a076b?source=collection_category---4------1-----------------------
What is Natural Language Processing? - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute What is Natural Language Processing? First, we’ll review at a high-level what NLP is and why we care. Then we’ll dig into the main branches of NLP and their use cases. Ryan Basques Follow Mar 22 · 11 min read Image by Dariusz Sankowski from Pixabay There’s something remarkable about humans. We’re capable of doing unbelievably complex tasks. Even more amazing is that most of the things easiest for us are incredibly difficult for machines to learn. Have you ever caught a baseball? Or picked out your favorite shirt in your closet? Or made a witty comment to a friend that gets a few laughs? These are second nature to us. Sure, a computer can hold near-infinite calculations on its hard drive while we have trouble estimating a tip. But if you ask a computer to tell a joke, it’s usually a bit cringey, if not disturbing! Photo by Rock’n Roll Monkey on Unsplash Low Hanging Fruit Understandably, the fields of mathematics and machine learning quickly made progress on problems concerning hard numbers: What does this house probably cost, given that it’s 2 bed, 1 bath, and sold for $100,000 5 years ago? How many customers can I expect to come to my restaurant tomorrow, given that we had 100 during the same time last year? But this ease hits a stopping point when we want to dip into problems facing our main methods of communication: talking and writing. We created coding programs to help us communicate on the same level as a computer. But can you imagine a world where humans talked to each other in the equivalent of code? It would be very dry… A programmer is going to the grocery store and his wife tells him, “Buy a gallon of milk, and if there are eggs, buy a dozen.” So the programmer goes, buys everything, and drives back to his house. Upon arrival, his wife angrily asks him, “Why did you get 13 gallons of milk?” The programmer says, “There were eggs!” Fortunately for us, there’s little chance that we’ll adopt Python as a spoken language. We can keep the beauty and complexity of the languages we speak and write, with their vast vocabulary, double-meanings, sarcasm, slang, abbreviations, and idiosyncrasies! A Quick Definition Natural language simply refers to the way we communicate with each other: speech and text. Photo by Kristina Paparo on Unsplash Processing refers to making natural language usable for computational tasks. So, Natural Language Processing (NLP) is concerned with finding, digesting, and understanding human speech and text. For NLP practitioners, the subtleties of natural language make NLP a very challenging and very exciting field to be a part of! Changes Over Time NLP wasn’t always conducted with artificial intelligence and machine learning. The original approach to solving natural language problems was to “hard code” hand-written, rules-based methods. For example, “dog” in English should always translate to “perro” in Spanish. But, what if the dog is female? Well, then this should translate to “perra”. What about “dog-days” referring to the hottest days of the year? Would “dias de perro” make any sense to a Spanish speaker? No — in Spanish this would be “la canícula”. We can see how hand-written rules quickly become problematic — this was actually a reason for a brief halt in NLP progress in the 20th century. But, with the aid of massive computational resources and some math know-how, NLP researchers have devised “statistical NLP” approaches to these problems, which have served a huge boost in accuracy and practicality in the field. We’ll leave it there as to the history for now, but know that this is why NLP is often considered a subfield of artificial intelligence/machine learning. Why is Natural Language Processing important? If a computer can aid us in understanding natural language, there are a whole world of tasks we can do more accurately and cheaply, saving people thousands of hours of tedious work. At one point I was helping a large transportation company with its marketing efforts. Millions of people go on trips with them every year. The company collects surveys from a sampling of these travelers — often asking questions on a scale from 1–10 (How smelly were the bathrooms?). In addition, they ask for free-text responses (How was your trip? Is there anything else we should know?). We got hundreds of thousands of survey responses. Can you imagine being the analyst assigned with reading through each response, trying to glean some useful information? Maybe you’re sitting with an Excel spreadsheet slowly ticking through rows of responses, marking how happy or angry the customer was. Image by www_slon_pics from Pixabay This sucks! Instead, we used a very simple but powerful method for automatically inferring how happy or angry the customer survey response was — a practice called “sentiment analysis”. Spend time more wisely Previously, a worker would spend valuable hours on this task. Or, more realistically, the company would just throw out the text data — wasting the time the customers spent filling it out, and any helpful insights waiting to be revealed. Now, in minutes, this analysis meant we could rate from 0% to 100% how happy or angry thousands of customers were on their trips. Then we can start tackling the 20% of issues that are causing 80% of customer complaints. This is one simple example — but there are so many times where a little sprinkle of NLP can save countless hours and provide a whole lot of valuable insight. So, we have some idea of the value that NLP can provide. What are the major use cases? How else might we employ NLP to make the world a better place? The 5 Major Branches of Natural Language Processing Natural language processing is a constantly growing, evolving field, with new applications and breakthroughs happening all the time. This certainly makes it difficult to break the field into neat categories, but below is one breakdown to help get our heads around the many different NLP methods: Syntax Semantics Discourse Speech Dialogue 1 — Syntax Syntax is something we take for granted. As children, we mostly learned the rules for our language through hearing others follow them, and trying to follow them ourselves. Syntax is usually invisible to us unless it is incorrect. Syntax is the set of rules around how to structure our sentences, use the correct tense, punctuation, etc. In other words, the rules your English teacher would mark you down for getting wrong in a paper. No run-on sentences! Image by Free-Photos from Pixabay Notice how one of these sentences seems quite wrong: The cat kept searching for the scampering mouse. (Good!) The cats is searched for the scampered mice. (Ouch!) Much of NLP is devoted to learning, dissecting, and reusing the rules of syntax. Most syntax tasks are low-level, and are not an end in themselves, but produce information used in higher-level NLP tasks that we will discuss below. Example of a syntax task One example is part-of-speech (POS) tagging. Given a word, we want to infer whether it’s a noun, verb, etc: Cat -> noun Searching -> verb For -> preposition While we may not particularly care that “cat” is a noun, this knowledge is very helpful for downstream NLP applications, like finding proper nouns or summarizing text. Other examples of NLP methods concerned with syntax include: Methods for finding “base” words (running -> run) Create a parse tree to represent the syntax of a given text Chunking — for example, breaking text into sentences or words Extract relevant terminology/keywords from a given text Allowing our machines to work with syntax forms the basis of (in my opinion) much cooler applications of NLP! Let’s continue. 2 — Semantics “I am the egg man. They are the egg men. I am the walrus.” Although the above snippet contains perfect syntax and follows all the rules, what does it mean? (Maybe a Beatles fan out there can explain it to me.) The meaning of the text is the concern of semantics. Our language must mean something. Image by nugroho dwi hartawan from Pixabay Example of a semantics task One example of an NLP method concerned with semantics is the ability to pick out proper nouns from text. For example, in the following sentence: “The next door neighbor Victor works for DreamWorks. Melissa, his wife, works for the Department of Defense.” The bolded entities are picked out by a Named Entity Recognition system which is designed to capture proper nouns. While easy for our eyes to pick out, this would be very difficult to hand-code rules for, especially since the system will not only find the proper nouns, it will tag them: Victor, Melissa -> person DreamWorks, Department of Defense -> organization At one point I worked for a company that wanted to extract the names of people mentioned in hundreds of thousands of contracts. Trying to find a dictionary with all possible names, or having somebody manually read through and highlight, would be error prone and take ages. Using an NER solved this quickly and accurately. More semantics! Some other NLP methods concerned with semantics include: Using numbers to represent the meanings of words/sentences in text and how they relate to one another Translating text from one language to another Creating human readable text from structured data (rows and columns) Determining the text in a given image (go from screenshot to Word document) Forming answers to questions about a given set of data Deciding on the positive or negative sentiment of a given text Separating text into self-contained topics Deciding on the meaning of an ambiguous word given the context (Roll over? Eat a sushi roll?) Given an example like above, where we find proper nouns, figuring out the relationships between these (Melissa is Victor’s wife) Semantics is a flourishing field — needless to say there is a lot of progress being made in helping our computers find meaning in text, and in turn helping us perform much more powerful analytics. 3 — Discourse What does it take for somebody to persuade you to do something? Let’s say your friend wants to go to Burger King. It would be in their favor to mention things like: The food is inexpensive. The burgers are juicy. The milkshakes are frothy. Doesn’t take much persuading! [Photo from Unsplash] Excellent — your friend makes a compelling argument! Then another friend wants to go to Wendy’s. They mention that: The weather outside is moderate. Arby’s is open in 48 states. My shoes are untied. Your second friend fell a bit short. Their ideas and suggestions had little to do with each other, or with the topic at hand for that matter. There is no coherence in what they are saying, so it’s really not very persuasive. In the first example, your friend talks directly to your desire to eat, and everything they say relates to Burger King. Great! Above all, discourse in NLP is concerned with groups of coherent sentences, and what makes for high-quality, human-like communication. Example of a discourse task One important method for discourse in NLP is text summarization. With text summarization, machines can automatically summarize any length of text to a length that you prefer, whether it’s an article summary in a sentence, a scientific paper summary in a paragraph, or a book summary in a page. For instance, there are often situations where professionals have heaps of papers they need to read through, but it’s not important that they read every word. They just need the gist of it. Most importantly, the returned summarization must be internally coherent — meaning the sentences in the summary follow one another logically and succinctly — and that the summary accurately condenses the information from the original text. Further methods of NLP that concern themselves with discourse include: Which mentions are referring to which entities? (“He” refers to “Victor”) Categorizing the type of text (Is it a question, statement, assertion?) Grade the quality and coherence of text (automatic essay scoring) Much of discourse is used when trying to train chatbots to interact well with humans and be easily understandable. If you tell a chatbot on a cosmetics website that you’re looking for a good moisturizer, it’s unhelpful for the bot to ask what your favorite book is. 4 — Speech Whereas most of what we’ve discussed so far concerns written text data, natural language includes the spoken word, too. Because the written word is easier for machines to work with, a main task in this category is speech-to-text translation. When you talk to a smart speaker like Alexa, software converts your speech to written words so that machines can perform the previous tasks we’ve described on it. In the other direction, given a piece of text, an NLP practitioner can try to make a machine read the text convincingly in a human voice. It’s amazing how in tune we are with other people’s speech — we can usually quickly detect a robot speaking to us. But text to speech is getting much better. Google Duplex robot voices have been shown to speak convincingly to the unsuspecting person on the other end. Turing would be proud! 5 — Dialogue When we talk to each other, we usually have a point we’re driving at (if we don’t we wouldn’t be talking). Maybe we’re trying to make the other person laugh, or figure out how to get to the grocery store, or ask them for money, or vent our feelings. In short, we have some purpose. Dialogue tries to explain the purpose of natural language in the context of people (or robots) talking to one another. Another term for this would be conversational knowledge. “I acknowledge your intent! Photo by Wynand van Poortvliet on Unsplash For example, the Switchboard Dialogue Act Corpus contains data from thousands of phone calls. The dataset tags the many kinds of intent that the speaker’s utterances may have. “Why don’t you go first” is classified as an “Action Directive” — you’re telling somebody to do something. “How about you?” is an “Open Question”. “ I’m sorry.” is an “Apology”. And one of my favorites: “Uh-huh.” is an “Acknowledgement”. You can imagine how a keen understanding of intent can help a chatbot become much more natural and convincing. That way it can say just the right thing to make you buy that moisturizer! There has never been a better time to start learning Natural Language Processing. We’re generating more unstructured text than ever before, and the questions we need to answer are complex and important. You now have the foundational knowledge to recognize which problems fall under the umbrella of NLP. Keep it up! Image from Pixabay Not only that — you also know about the different branches of NLP which will allow you to brainstorm different solutions to your problems, and different approaches to mining value from your data. If you’re very new to the field, a great way to start is to pick a methodology that interests you and go deep — see what problems you can solve with it. Most importantly, stay reading and practicing. I’ll be doing the same! Thank you for reading! Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 110 NLP Data Science Data Analysis Machine Learning Artificial Intelligence 110 claps Written by Ryan Basques Follow Working in data analytics, studying philosophy. Striving to find a better path in both. Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (2) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
