https://towardsdatascience.com/@marinvp
Marin Vlastelica Pogan?i? – Towards Data Science Homepage Homepage Become a memberSign inGet started Marin Vlastelica Pogan?i? PhD @ Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems | Passionate about AI | https://www.linkedin.com/in/mvlastelica/ 22 Following599 Followers BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing Stories in Towards Data Science Other stories by Marin Vlastelica Pogan?i? Marin Vlastelica Pogan?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 23 7 Things to Think About When Developing Reinforcement Learners Albeit we have made very good progress… Read more… 5 Marin Vlastelica Pogan?i? in Towards Data Science Feb 26 What is the “Information” in Information Theory? Breaking down the fundamental concept of information. Read more… 134 Marin Vlastelica Pogan?i? in Towards Data Science Jan 17 The Fusion of Deep Learning and Combinatorics Breakthrough: how can we seamlessly incorporate… Read more… 800 4 responses Marin Vlastelica Pogan?i? in Towards Data Science Jan 13 The Curious Case of the Causal Link Between Altitude and Temperature A simple but yet not so simple… Read more… 7 Marin Vlastelica Pogan?i? in Towards Data Science Oct 17, 2019 Rubik’s Cube? No, Robotics and AI are Not There Yet Let’s talk about the OpenAI dexterous robotic hand… Read more… 89 1 response Marin Vlastelica Pogan?i? in Towards Data Science Oct 1, 2019 A Brief Primer on Optimization to Unlock the Universe What is shared between artificial intelligence… Read more… 73 Marin Vlastelica Pogan?i? in Towards Data Science Sep 30, 2019 The Carbon Footprint of AI Research What is the cost of making good machine learning models, doing AI… Read more… 117 Marin Vlastelica Pogan?i? in Towards Data Science Aug 17, 2019 The Branch and Bound Algorithm One of the most used algorithms in optimization, the backbone of mixed… Read more… 74 Marin Vlastelica Pogan?i? in Towards Data Science Aug 13, 2019 You Must Know Constrained Least Squares Spicing up multi-objective least squares to introduce hard… Read more… 13 Marin Vlastelica Pogan?i? in Towards Data Science Aug 10, 2019 You Must Know Multi-Objective Least Squares Least squares is nice, but it is limited in many respects… Read more… 131 1 response
