https://towardsdatascience.com/the-most-undervalued-standard-python-library-14021632f692?source=collection_category---4------5-----------------------
The Most Undervalued Standard Python Library - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute The Most Undervalued Standard Python Library Collections for data scientists Tyler Folkman Follow Oct 26, 2019 · 3 min read YouTube Python has a lot of great libraries included out of the box. One of which is collections. The collections module provides “high-performance container datatypes” which provide alternatives to the general-purpose containers dict, list, set, and tuple. I’d love to introduce you to three of these datatypes and in the end, you’ll be wondering how you ever lived without them. NamedTuple I can’t overstate how useful namedtuples can be for data scientists. Let me know if this scenario sounds familiar: You are doing feature engineering and since you love lists, you just keep appending the features to a list, which you then feed into your machine learning model. Soon, you might have hundreds of features and that’s when things get messy. You no longer remember which feature refers to which index in your list. Worse, when someone else looks at your code, they have no idea what is going on with this monstrous list of features. Enter NamedTuples to save the day. With just a few extra lines of code, your crazy messy list will be restored to order. Let’s take a look If you were to run this code, it would print out “22”, the age you stored in your row. This is amazing! Now you don’t have to use indexes to access your features but instead can use human-understandable names. This makes your code significantly more maintainable and clean. Counter Counter is aptly named — its main function is counting. This sounds simple, but it turns out that data scientists often have to count things, so it can be very handy. There are a few ways it can be initialized, but I most often have a list of values and feed that list in as so If you were to run the above code (which you can by using this awesome tool), you would get the following output: [(22, 5), (25, 3), (24, 2), (30, 2), (35, 1), (40, 1), (11, 1), (45, 1), (15, 1), (16, 1), (52, 1), (26, 1)] A list of tuples ordered by the most common where the tuple first contains the value and then the count. So we can now quickly see that 22 is the most common age with 5 occurrences and that there is a long-tail of ages with only 1 count. Nice! DefaultDict This is one of my favorites. DefaultDict is a dictionary that is initialized with a default value when each key is encountered for the first time. Here is an example This returns defaultdict(<type 'int'>, {'a': 4, ' ': 8, 'c': 1, 'e': 2, 'd': 2, 'f': 2, 'i': 1, 'h': 1, 'l': 1, 'o': 2, 'n': 1, 's': 3, 'r': 2, 'u': 1, 't': 3, 'x': 1}) Normally, when you try and access a value not in a dictionary it throws an error. There are other ways to handle this, but they add unnecessary code when you have a default value you want to assume. In our example above, we initialize the defauldict with int. That means on first access, it will assume a zero, so we can easily just keep adding up the counts of all of the characters. Simple and clean. Another common initialization is list, which allows you to immediately start appending values upon first access. Photo by Hitesh Choudhary on Unsplash Go Write Cleaner Code Now that you know about the collections library and some of its awesome features, go use them! You’ll be surprised by how often they are useful and how much nicer your code will be. Enjoy! Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 4.6K Programming Data Science Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning Tds Video 4.6K claps Written by Tyler Folkman Follow Head of AI at Branded Entertainment Network. Passionately pursuing great leadership and helping others along the way. Join the journey: http://bit.ly/2QQwFsm Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (15) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
