https://towardsdatascience.com/building-differentially-private-machine-learning-models-using-tensorflow-privacy-52068ff6a88e?source=collection_category---4------0-----------------------
Building Differentially private Machine Learning Models Using TensorFlow Privacy Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute EVENT TALKS Building Differentially private Machine Learning Models Using TensorFlow Privacy Chang Liu | TMLS2019 TDS Team Follow Mar 24 · 2 min read A talk from the Toronto Machine Learning Summit: https://torontomachinelearning.com/ About the speaker Chang Liu is an Applied Research Scientist and a member of the Georgian Impact team. She brings her in-depth knowledge of mathematical and combinatorial optimization to helping Georgian’s portfolio companies. Chang holds a Master’s of Applied Science in Operations Research from the University of Toronto, where she specialized in combinatorial optimization. She also holds a Bachelor’s Degree in mathematics from the University of Waterloo. About the talk This talk will introduce differential privacy and its use cases, discuss the new component of the TensorFlow Privacy library, and offer real-world scenarios for how to apply the tools. In recent years, the world has become increasingly data-driven and individuals and organizations have developed a stronger awareness and concern for the privacy of their sensitive data. It has been shown that it is impossible to disclose statistical results about a private database without revealing some information. In fact, the entire database could be recovered from a few query results. Following research on the privacy of sensitive databases, a number of big players such as Google, Apple, and Uber have turned to differential privacy to help guarantee the privacy of sensitive data. That attention from major technology firms has helped bring differential privacy out of research labs and into the realm of software engineering and product development. Differential privacy is now something that smaller firms and software startups are adopting and finding great value in. Apart from privacy guarantees, advances in differential privacy also allow businesses to unlock more capabilities and increased data utility. One of these capabilities includes the ability to transfer knowledge from existing data through differentially private ensemble models without data privacy concerns. As differential privacy garners recognition in large tech companies, efforts to make current state-of-the-art research more accessible to the general public and small startups are underway. As a contribution to the broader community, Georgian Partners has provided its differential privacy library to the TensorFlow community. Together, we will make differentially private stochastic gradient descent available in a user-friendly and easy-to-use API that allows users to train private logistic regression. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 63 Data Science Tds Event Talks Machine Learning Artificial Intelligence Towards Data Science 63 claps Written by TDS Team Follow Sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Learn more about us here: http://bit.ly/2HYahYe Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Write the first response More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
