https://towardsdatascience.com/data-science-the-new-york-times-66721350b389?source=collection_category---4------1-----------------------
Data Science @ The New York Times - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Event Talks Data Science @ The New York Times Christopher Wiggins | TMLS2019 TDS Team Follow Mar 17 · 1 min read A talk from the Toronto Machine Learning Summit: https://torontomachinelearning.com/ About the speaker Chris Wiggins is an associate professor of applied mathematics at Columbia University and the Chief Data Scientist at The New York Times. At Columbia he is a founding member of the executive committee of the Data Science Institute, and of the Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics as well as the Department of Systems Biology, and is affiliated faculty in Statistics. https://www.linkedin.com/in/wiggins/ About the talk The Data Science group at The New York Times develops and deploys machine learning solutions to newsroom and business problems. Re-framing real-world questions as machine learning tasks require not only adapting and extending models and algorithms to new or special cases but also sufficient breadth to know the right method for the right challenge. The speaker will first outline how unsupervised, supervised, and reinforcement learning methods are increasingly used in human applications for description, prediction, and prescription, respectively. The speaker will then focus on the ‘prescriptive’ cases, showing how methods from the reinforcement learning and causal inference literatures can be of direct impact in engineering, business, and decision-making more generally. Data Science @ The New York Times Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 38 Data Science Tds Event Talks Data Machine Learning Artificial Intelligence 38 claps Written by TDS Team Follow Sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Learn more about us here: http://bit.ly/2HYahYe Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Write the first response More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
