https://towardsdatascience.com/about-towards-data-science-d691af11cc2f?source=collection_category---4------0-----------------------
About Towards Data Science - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute LAST UPDATED JANUARY 2020 About Towards Data Science We strive to present well-written, informative articles that our audience is excited to read. TDS Team Follow May 5, 2018 · 6 min read Our Team | FAQs | Writers’ Guide | Milestones | Our publication in numbers | Contact us The Medium Ecosystem “Ideas and perspectives you won’t find anywhere else.” The emphasis on people rather than on advertisements renders Medium unique. It not only helps writers to present their original ideas, but it also offers a clean reading experience to a broad audience of engaged readers. The Medium ecosystem is kept clear to remain transparent with a user-friendly Terms Of Service and simple rules accessible to all. Writers are better protected because they are in control of the licenses for their work. “You own the rights to the content you create and post on Medium.” — Medium Terms of Service, March 7, 2016. Furthermore, in 2017 Medium launched the internet’s first open Paywall. This paywall enables creators to “earn money from a community of readers that believes ideas and creativity are worth paying for”. We are thrilled to be a part of it! We joined Medium’s vibrant community in October 2016. In the beginning, our goal was simply to gather good posts and distribute them to a broader audience. Just a few months later, we were pleased to see that we had a very fast growing audience and many new contributors. Today we are working with more than 10 Editorial Associates to prepare the most exciting content for our audience. We provide customized feedback to our contributors using Medium’s private notes. This allows us to promote our latest articles across social media without the added complexity that we might encounter using another platform. Our team Impressive Contributors The success of Medium’s Ecosystem attracts more and more unique voices eager to share something that matters. In February 2017 Ev Williams, CEO of Medium, reported that more than 50,000 writers publish on Medium every week. This striking figure is still growing in 2018. Better still, Medium is a platform for everyone, meaning you get authors from everywhere - who are professional and also new to the journey. This impressive community of authors is what lifted our following, drove the early days of Towards Data Science, and continues to be the reason we’re still here. In January 2020, we counted more than 10,000 authors that were located around the globe, and we are grateful to receive so many of your new contributions every day. People join for all sorts of reasons, whether it’s to reach a broader audience, obtain critical feedback or to build professional networks within our community. Others like publishing with us as they remain the sole owner of their original work, and can edit (or delete) their posts at any moment, even after it is published. Whether our authors choose to publish with us once week, a few times a month or several times during the year, they all offer a unique contribution that makes us who we are today. For instance, Jonny Brooks-Bartlett has published several articles on probability. Ethan Arsht used math to study if Napoleon was the Best General Ever. Susan Li shared her latest codes and tutorials with the data science community. George Seif explained different types of clustering algorithms amongst a host of other concepts. Since we started, we have been amazed by the quality of the posts that we receive. We can feel the hard work and the willingness to share something important. We feel privileged to help and support our contributors to get their message across. While we allow independent authors to publish articles and videos in accordance with our rules and guidelines, we do not endorse each author’s contribution. Some of our most-read articles. You can click on the images to be redirected. Purpose and Value Our Purpose We are an international team of 15 people who work on the content that gets released on Towards Data Science. Every day we review the submissions and offer feedback to a multitude of authors. Our goal is to present well-written, informative articles that our audience is excited to read. On top of that, we are always working on new projects (like developing a podcast channel) to further help our contributors to reach our audience. For everything we do, we try to involve our community as much as possible. Ultimately, we hope to make the world a better place and we believe that data-related knowledge is a crucial part of achieving this; so we work hard to bring more value to our data science community. “We believe that data-related knowledge is crucial in making the world a better place.” TDS team. Our Core Values Stay Positive: Sometimes the best way to protest is to propose something new. We help people who are trying to present and share new ideas. The more we offer new ideas and share knowledge, the quicker we can solve the pressing problems. Focus on Improvement: As we care about the long-term, we always seek to achieve manageable and gradual improvement. We continually want to earn and build on our readers’ trust! Be Grateful: Without Medium, or without our community, we never could have existed. We are thankful to all the people that have made this possible. We are especially grateful to our writers, Editorial Associates and anyone else who has helped us along the way. Take a Peek at Our Instagram Diary ? Our work would not be possible without our Editorial Associates. Since we started recruiting in October 2017, they have raised the quality of the content published on Towards Data Science. We now have a team of kind and responsible people, eager to learn, to help and to understand our authors’ ideas. Like in many bottom-up movements, Towards Data Science was also built with friends, family, and people who decided to help without wanting anything in return. We thank them, and you, for everything. You can contact us here. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 788 Thanks to Ludovic Benistant, Joshua Fleming, and Wendy Wong.  Medium Editing Remote Working 788 claps Written by TDS Team Follow Sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Learn more about us here: http://bit.ly/2HYahYe Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (7) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
