https://towardsdatascience.com/our-team-c2c8e712c971?source=collection_category---4------1-----------------------
Our Team - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute LAST UPDATED OCTOBER 2019 Our Team We are a team of like-minded people building an eco-system for data scientists and machine learning engineers. TDS Team Follow May 8, 2018 · 9 min read About Us | Ask Us Anything Ludovic Benistant. Editor. Hi! I grew up in the south of France. When I was around 18 years old, one friend introduced me to philosophy. In a few days, I became so interested in reading Sophie’s World and listening to France Culture that I couldn’t stop. Podcasts suddenly transformed the worse moments of my day (such as commuting or waiting in lines) into the best ones, where I discovered great philosophers’ minds. Read More | Read posts published by Ludovic YK Sugi. Podcaster / YouTuber. Hi! I’m YK, and I’m currently a full-time programming YouTuber at CSdojo. I wanted to be part of the Towards Data Science community because it is clear to me that data science, machine learning and AI are going to be a more and more important part of our lives, and I’d love to be part of it! The current plan is for me to help out with TDS’s new YouTube channel and podcast. Read More | Read posts published by YK Anne Bonner. Editor. Hi! I’m Anne! I’m passionate about teaching and sharing information and I want to help move technology forward by bridging the gap between beginners and experts. I like to think that I help tech professionals tell better stories. With a background in everything from theatre to philosophy and from data science to machine learning to AI (not to mention ten years as a professional chef), I love those points where different fields of knowledge intersect to create something even greater. Read More | Read posts published by Anne Benjamin Cooley. Editorial Associate. I tell visual stories with data through a combination of data visualization, journalism and data science. I started out in the journalism world circa 2016 before taking a deep dive into data at the Goldsmiths MSc Digital Journalism program. Now I make data-driven stories, content and visualizations that bring information to life. Based in London, I spend most of my time thinking about how to communicate with data, how to humanise data and how to make data more accessible through smart visualisation. I also write a weekly data newsletter with links to resources on data visualisation, data science and technology. As part of the TDS editorial team, I’ll be focussing on pieces that make great use of data visualization and data storytelling. Read posts published by Ben Joshua Fleming. Editorial Associate. Hi, I’m Josh, a 23 year old Biochemistry graduate from the UK, currently living in Wellington, New Zealand. I’m a new Editor at TDS working on a variety of projects focused on getting more people into Data Science! As data plays an increasingly significant role in our lives, I think it’s important that we all understand the benefits and consequences of this shift, as well as the science behind it. Read More Rui Geng. Editorial Associate. Hello everyone, I am Rui Geng, the Editorial Associate at TDS. I am currently a mobile developer and machine learning/AI enthusiast from Sydney. I am focus on generative models in AI, such as GAN or VAE, especially on Computer Vision. I believe AI will be the next greatest thing in technology, and many industries will be changed by it. I am very interested in how to apply academic research outcomes into real industries, and that’s why I am here to help more people to publish their ideas or recent learnings on AI, as I think the more people get involved into this field, the faster the future can come! If you are in Sydney, please get in touch with me, or connect with me directly on Instagram. Cheers! Read posts published by Rui Andrew DeCotiis-Mauro. Editorial Associate. “Hi! I’m currently a high school physics and chemistry teacher. I did my bachelors in chemistry and biochemistry at Montclair State University. I did the first year of the chemistry PhD program at Penn State University where I studied computational chemistry and I had my first experiences with high performance computing. I ended up going back to MSU to get my masters in chemistry.” Read More | Read posts published by Andrew Hamza Bendemra. Editorial Associate. “Hi there! I am a research engineer currently based in Abu Dhabi conducting projects with industrial partners on various R&D projects from developing novel automated solutions to working on large datasets for data analysis and predictive modelling. I am passionate about robotics, machine learning, and data visualisations! I think Data Viz is more art than science and I too often scroll for hours looking at amazing visualization on data viz websites like FlowingData and Information is Beautiful.” Read More | Read posts published by Hamza Juilien Hsu. Editorial Associate. Hi! I love sciences! While pursuing my college degree in biology, I was impressed by how scientists work so hard to test whether their samples are representative enough for the truth. However, I did not feel convinced that countable samples could really help researchers confidently test hypotheses. In the meantime, the usefulness of statistics is always fascinating to me. I had kept this excitement until I moved to Washington D.C. where there are good biostatistics graduate programs and relevant opportunities. Read More Haebichan Jung. Interviewer. Hello fellow data nerds! My name is Haebichan (“hey-b-chan”) Jung. I’m currently a Data Scientist at Recurly, a subscription billing and management company based in San Francisco. You might have also seen me in those TDS interviews on YouTube, where I speak with Data Scientists from industry who share important insights on the data science field for the TDS community. Read More | Read posts published by Haebichan Ashwin Hariharan. Editorial Associate. Hi there, I’m Ashwin! I’m a software engineer and blogger based out of Bangalore India. It’s wonderful being a part of the editorial team at Towards Data Science. I constantly get amazed to see the kind of articles that people write — this has vastly improved my understanding of data science and deep learning, that I believe will eventually become indispensable. Having a passion for writing, teaching and amplifying voices, I also am a contributing writer and editor for freeCodeCamp and Code Like A Girl. After getting my bachelors degree in Computer Science in 2014, I worked with startups, primarily building web-based applications. I got to see first-hand the challenges involved in building and shipping a great product — eventually, a company needs data as a sword needs a whetstone, if it is to keep its edge! I love learning and sharing my knowledge — by being involved with communities, mentoring, and blogging. Currently I’m looking forward to the fast.ai live program that’s going to begin this October, and I hope to learn a lot of things along the way! Read More | Read posts published by Ashwin Rohan Joseph. Editorial Associate. Hello All, I’m Rohan and currently an Editorial Associate for Towards Data Science. After my Undergrad in Electrical Engineering, I started my career in Data Science — which was a stroke of luck. And, after working as a Decision Scientist for three years, I fell in love with the field of analytics. Then, I decided to do a Master’s in a quantitative field, which led me to pursue my Master’s in Operations Research at Virginia Tech. Read More | Read posts published by Rohan Angela Marie Teng. Editor. Mabuhay everyone! My name is Amber and I am an Editorial Associate at Towards Data Science. I’m currently pursuing an MSc in data science, with an interest in data science applications for social good. My interest in data science blossomed after I attended my first hackathon. I was excited by the impact that data and technology could make in such a short amount of time, as well as the opportunity that the field provided for data-driven storytelling. Pulling from my educational background in economics and archaeology, I am excited by the potential that these intersections have to create and curate sustainable change. Based in Chicago, and raised in Manila, I spend most of my time thinking about how interdisciplinary collaboration can galvanize innovations in technology. Read More | Read posts published by Angela Lester Leong. Editorial Associate. Hi everyone, I’m Lester Leong and work as a data science management consultant for a big financial services firm. When I’m not bouncing around helping businesses improve their top or bottom lines, I love learning all things data science. Currently, my focus is in finance and marketing. Read More | Read posts published by Lester Sabina Pokhrel. Editorial Associate. Hi! I am Sabina Pokhrel and I am an Editorial Associate at Towards Data Science. AI and Machine Learning have huge potential but right now only a few are taking advantage of it. Part of this is because the majority of people have a belief that it is hard and not accessible easily. I want everyone to use this advancing technology to make this world a better place which is why I want to share my knowledge of what is possible with AI and Machine Learning and that it does not have to be daunting. Read More | Read posts published by Sabina Anton Muehlemann. Editorial Associate. Hi, I am Anton, a full-time machine learning engineer at determined.ai. My background is in mathematics and materials science. After completing grad school in the UK and doing a Postdoc at UC Berkeley, I co-founded a crypto startup. During this time, I became increasingly interested in machine learning both theoretically and practically. Some fun ML projects from the past are a ML-based trading bot on the German stock market and a tool to help predict buildings that are vulnerable to earthquakes based on google street view images. One of my passions is to make abstract machine learning concepts easily accessible and to visualize large messy datasets. It is quite incredible how machine learning has become accessible to anyone. Read More | Read posts published by Anton Tyler Folkman. Editorial Associate. Hi! My name is Tyler Folkman and I am excited to have joined Towards Data Science as an associate editor! I love being involved in the data science community and finding ways to give back and learn more. I have had an interesting path coming from an economics background, to self-learning a lot of data science and somehow convincing UT Austin to take me on as a CS Masters student. Read More | Read posts published by Tyler Xinran Waibel. Editorial Associate. Hey everyone! I am Xinran Waibel, currently a data engineer at Confluent, the company behind Apache Kafka. Right now I live in the San Francisco Bay Area but I actually grew up in China. I love the engineering side of big data challenges and I am passionate about writing and sharing knowledge with the community, which is why I joined the Towards Data Science team. Outside of work, I have fun hanging out with my dog Foxy and I am a big video game fan. If you are interested in learning more about data engineering, check out my Data Engineering 101 column on TDS! Professional narrators: Michael Bonner and Alice Irizarry. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 587 Team Remote Working Editing 587 claps Written by TDS Team Follow Sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Learn more about us here: http://bit.ly/2HYahYe Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (12) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
