https://towardsdatascience.com/our-podcast-c5c1129bc5cf?source=collection_category---4------2-----------------------
Our Podcast - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute APPLE | GOOGLE | SPOTIFY | OTHERS | CLIPS Our Podcast Listen to conversations about data science and machine learning TDS Team Follow Sep 20, 2019 · 2 min read Photo by Minhaj Mohammed on Unsplash We are recording multiple series of conversations with guests that we believe have something especially valuable to say to you. Most of our podcast series will be hosted by Jeremie Harris, Edouard Harris, and Russell Pollari. Aside from being among our best authors they also manage their own data science and machine learning mentorship company and bring a fresh big-picture perspective on the field of data science as a whole. Their first podcast series, Climbing the Data Science Ladder, will feature conversations with experienced data scientists at world-class companies, like LinkedIn, Facebook and Airbnb. Each conversation will cover tips for breaking into data science, how to effectively develop your skills and grow if you’re in the field already, and thoughts on the future of data science as a whole. Along the way, we’ll occasionally be producing special series lead by interviewers with unique perspectives on the field. Our first special series will be produced by YK Sugi. YK is mainly known for his YouTube channel (CS Dojo). His series will examine real-world case studies featuring applications of data science that made a real-life impact or which are particularly new or innovative. We are looking for guests who have something valuable to share with our audience. If you happen to know someone who would be a good fit, please let us know here: publication@towardsdatascience.com. If you are interested in creating a series of conversations with us, please feel free to reach out. Finally, this still a work in progress so please don’t hesitate to send your feedback. Thanks! Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 111 Towards Data Science Data Science Machine Learning Readers Guide 111 claps Written by TDS Team Follow Sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Learn more about us here: http://bit.ly/2HYahYe Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (1) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
