https://towardsdatascience.com/listen-to-our-narrated-articles-779e436b4491?source=collection_category---4------3-----------------------
Listen to our narrated articles - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Listen to our narrated articles Conveniently listen to some of our best content on your schedule TDS Team Follow Oct 4, 2019 · 2 min read We are on a mission to get our best content to everyone. We’re passionate about giving you access to innovative concepts and ideas in the ways that work best for you. From our podcast to our newsletter to our publication itself, we are constantly working to share cutting-edge concepts with you in every way we can. We are now working to make your life even better by offering convenient audio narration of some of our best articles. Our selection of narrated articles includes carefully curated content read by our team of professional narrators. Listen to Michael Bonner, Jenae Connelly, Eric MacFadden, and Alice Irizarry bring these amazing concepts to life for you as you go through your day. Listen when it’s convenient for you and learn about some of the most incredible ideas in data science, machine learning, artificial intelligence, programming, and more. Examples: https://towardsdatascience.com/narrated/home We also let our authors propose their own recordings as Daniel did here. Send your complete audio in mp3 format to publication@towardsdatascience.com. If you have ideas about what we can do to make this section even better, please don’t hesitate to send your feedback. Thanks! Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 52 Machine Learning Towards Data Science Data Science Readers Guide 52 claps Written by TDS Team Follow Sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Learn more about us here: http://bit.ly/2HYahYe Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Write the first response More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
