https://towardsdatascience.com/ask-us-anything-70617fc7eccf?source=collection_category---4------5-----------------------
Ask Us Anything - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Read our previous contributions Ask Us Anything Send your questions to our team and we will do our best to answer them. TDS Team Follow Nov 25, 2019 · 2 min read About Us | Feedback Ask us anything! (Really!) We know that you probably have a ton of questions about data science, machine learning, artificial intelligence, deep learning, writing, editing, Medium, and more. We want to help! Our team here at Towards Data Science has a lot of experience, and we want to share what we’ve learned with you. Ask us your questions, and we will do our best to answer you. How does it work? Simple! Submit your question to our Google form here. (It’s a good idea to add a description to help us better understand your question.) Every month or so, our team will select a few of the questions that we received and publish our answers. Make sure to include your Medium username on our Google form so that we can mention you when we publish our answer! Here are some great questions we’ve already received: How do I get started in data science? What are the most neglected pieces of advice that you would give to beginners? How do I write a great data science article? Will data science jobs be automated? How do you convince your manager to invest in data science? How do you take expert knowledge into consideration in your model? What are the most pressing problems in data science? Should we be worried about artificial intelligence? How do you predict rare events? What are some of the best posts on TDS that I probably missed? If you’re feeling inspired, feel free to answer any of these questions on your own and submit an article to us! Read our previous contributions Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 68 Data Science Tds Aua 68 claps Written by TDS Team Follow Sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Learn more about us here: http://bit.ly/2HYahYe Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Write the first response More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
