https://towardsdatascience.com/questions-96667b06af5?source=collection_category---4------0-----------------------
Write for Towards Data Science - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute LAST UPDATED JANUARY 2020 Write for Towards Data Science Share your concepts, ideas, and codes with a broader audience TDS Team Follow Oct 22, 2016 · 11 min read About Us | Our Team | FAQs | Writers’ Guide | Get Inspired | Contact Us — ? Mia Baker Table of contents Why become a contributor? Submission rules Guidelines How can you contribute? FAQs Changelog Why become a contributor? Towards Data Science Inc. operates an independent Medium publication. We are looking for writers to propose up-to-date content focused on data science, machine learning, artificial intelligence and programming. If you love to write about these topics, read on! Publishing in Towards Data Science enables you to reach a broader audience and earn money through the Medium Partner Program. You also remain the only owner of your work, in accordance with the Medium Terms of Service that you agree to when establishing a Medium account. Reach a broader audience with your articles. We are one of the most read Medium publications and one of the most popular data science blogs in the world. According to Medium stats, our publication numbers in January 2020 were: 30,000,000 Minutes read (30 days) 20,000,000 Views (30 days) 370,000 Unique Daily Visitors (30-day average) 340,000 Subscribers Also, here are a few things we do to ensure your articles reach the largest audience possible: We have a custom domain (towardsdatascience.com as opposed to medium.com/towards-data-science) that helps drive more traffic to your article. We also have our own tags’ pages and author pages. We feature our best content on our publication’s pages and social media: Linkedin, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram. We send weekly and monthly newsletters that feature stories and writers. Our best authors are regularly invited to join us on our podcast channel. Earn money through the Medium Partner Program. Writers can choose to meter stories that are on TDS and earn money through the Medium Partner Program based on engagement from Medium members. “Metering” refers to making a story eligible to earn money behind Medium’s metered paywall. Writers keep 100% of the earnings they earn through their Medium account as part of the Medium Partner Program. However, the Medium Partner Program is not administered by TDS and we do not pay contributors directly for articles they voluntarily contribute. You will remain the only owner of your work and will be able to edit or delete it at any moment, even after we have published it. The feedback our editors and community provide will appear at the relevant places in your article. You will be able to dismiss or respond to them. Submission rules Before submitting your article, there are a few essential things you need to know. Make sure you read each point well, and that you understand them, as by submitting an article to TDS, you are agreeing to comply with all of them. Medium’s Rules and Terms of Service apply to Towards Data Science (TDS) as it is a Medium publication. Make sure you read it before submitting your article. As explained in Medium’s Terms of Service, you own the rights to the content you create and post on Medium and therefore Towards Data Science. You’re also responsible for the content you post. This means you assume all risks related to it, including someone else’s reliance on its accuracy, or claims relating to intellectual property or other legal rights. We have adopted Medium’s Content Guidelines and Medium’s Curation Guidelines for every article we publish. This means that if your post isn’t of a high enough quality to be curated or doesn’t follow the guidelines, we won’t publish it on Towards Data Science. Please don’t submit more than three stories in a single day. Any more than three submissions will be refused without reading. You’re welcome to resubmit them in the future. You can edit and remove your article from our publication at any time. We might directly edit your content to correct basic spelling mistakes and update minimal formatting. Also, we might remove images where the source isn’t clearly stated. Copyright violation is a real thing and could happen to you. It is your responsibility to ensure you own or have a legal right to use, all content, images, and videos you include in your articles. We can remove any articles you post on Towards Data Science for any reason. If we do so, your content will not be lost but still hosted on Medium.com and redirected there. If our editorial team finds one or more violations of our rules, we can remove you and all of your articles from our publication and report them to Medium. Guidelines How to get your article ready for publication! We aim to strike a balance between innovating, informing and philosophizing. We want to hear from you! But we do ask that if you are not a professional writer, you consider the following points when you prepare your article. We want to publish high quality, professional articles that people want to read. 1. Is your story a story that needs to be told? Before you start writing, ask yourself: is this story a story that needs to be told? If you have read many articles addressing the same issue or explaining the same concept, think twice before writing another one. If you have a radical, new take on an old chestnut, we want to hear from you… but, we need you to persuade us that your article is something special that distinguishes itself from the pack and speaks to our audience. Conversely, if your article addresses an underserved area or presents a new idea or method, that’s just what we are after! 2. What is your message? Let us know what your ‘take home message’ is, right from the start. Give your piece a snappy introduction that tells us: What is your novel idea? Why should we care? How are you going to prove your point? Once you’ve got that out of the way, you can be as conversational as you like, but keep calling back to the central message and give us a solid conclusion. Remember though, Towards Data Science is not your personal blog, keep it sharp and on-topic! 3. On the internet, nobody knows you are a dog You’ve got a new idea or a new way of doing things, you want to tell the community and start a discussion. Fantastic, that’s what we want too, but we’re not going to take for granted that you know what you are talking about or that we should uncritically believe what you say… you’ve got to persuade us (your audience) that: The subject matter is important There is a gap that needs to be filled You have the answer Your solution works Your idea is based on a logical progression of ideas and evidence If you are giving us a tutorial, tell us why people would need to use this tool and why your way is better than the methods already published. You can do this by explaining the background, showing examples, providing an experiment or just laying out how data you have extracted from various sources allowed you to synthesise this new idea. Are there arguments that counter your opinion or your findings? Explain why that interpretation conflicts with your idea and why your idea comes out on top. 4. Do you have a short title with an insightful subtitle? If you scroll up this page you will see what a title and subtitle look like. Your post also needs to have a short title and a longer subtitle that tell potential readers why they should read your post. Overall, your header is useful for making your aims clear to readers. Also, when your subtitle is directly under the headline and it’s formatted as H2 it will show up in some post previews which helps with click-through rate. 5. What value do you deliver to your readers? Make sure your post achieves its purpose. For instance, if your goal is to explain several concepts, ensure that these concepts are bared to their essentials, narrated in an orderly sequence and illustrated with simple and accurate analogies. Second, use concrete language and visual imagery. As Steven Pinker puts it in his book The Sense of Style: “We are primates, with a third of our brains dedicated to vision, and large swaths devoted to touch, hearing, motion, and space. For us to go from “I think I understand” to “I understand,” we need to see the sights and feel the motions.” and he continues “Many experiments have shown that readers understand and remember material far better when it is expressed in concrete language that allows them to form visual images”. Third, work to improve your writing skills. You could start by replacing linking and light verbs such as ‘to be, is, going, become, bring, make, take, have’, by more precise action verbs. For example, you could say ‘agile’ instead of ‘going fast’. There is plenty of great advice on the internet. Finally, check for spelling, punctuation and grammatical mistakes. If you can’t do it yourself, use Grammarly and then ask a friend to help you. As we are such a small team, we can’t correct every submission. 6. Is your code well displayed? Please don’t screenshot your code but use one of these two other solutions: Medium’s native code blocks & inline code Embed GitHub gists If you paste a code within your article, be sure to explain it so all your readers can follow what you are doing. 7. Check your facts Whenever you provide a fact, if it’s not self-evident, let us know where you learned it. Tell us who your sources are and where your data originated. If we want to have a conversation we all need to be on the same page. Maybe something you say will spark a discussion, but if we want to be sure we are not at cross purposes, we need to go back to the original and read for ourselves in case we are missing a vital piece of the puzzle that makes everything you say make sense. 8. Is your conclusion to the point and not promotional? You can use your conclusion to link the original post and even a few relevant articles but please avoid requesting for claps or having many links to your previously published articles. Your readers know that they can click on your profile to see all your posts. They also know that they can follow you, so there is no need to request it. For your references, please respect this format: [X] N. Name, Title (Year), Source For example, your first reference should look like this: [1] A. Pesah, A. Wehenkel and G. Louppe, Recurrent Machines for Likelihood-Free Inference (2018), NeurIPS 2018 Workshop on Meta-Learning 9. Are your tags precise enough? The more specific your tags, the easier it is for readers to find your article and for us to classify and recommend your post to the relevant audience. Depending on the tags you choose, your post will be featured on our data science, machine learning, programming or visualization page. Please choose precise tags as we can’t allow a post to be in all our categories at once. We may change one or two tags before publication. We would do this only to keep our different sections relevant to our readers. For instance, we would want to avoid tagging a post on linear regression as “Artificial Intelligence”. 10. Do you have an amazing image? A great image attracts and stimulates readers. That is why all the best newspapers always display awesome pictures. Here is what you can do to add one to your post: Take one yourself. There is a good chance that your phone is good enough to capture a cool image of your surroundings. Make a great graph. If your post involves data analysis, spend some time to make one graph truly unique. You can try R, python, D3.js or even Plotly. Use Pixabay or Unsplash. All of their content is released under Creative Commons CC0, which means their photos are safe to use without asking for permission or giving credit to the artist — even for commercial purposes. Medium + Unsplash Every photo on Unsplash, now available in Medium. medium.com Spend $2 to $5. Many websites now sell good stock photos: Photodune, Shuttershock, Istockphotos, depositphotos. Remember to cite the source and make sure that you have the right to use it. Copyright violation is a real thing and could happen to you. 11. Have you respected Medium’s guidelines? We have adopted Medium’s curation guidelines for every article we publish. This means that if your post isn’t of a high enough quality to be curated or doesn’t follow the curation guidelines, we won’t publish it on Towards Data Science. Medium’s Curation Guidelines: everything writers need to know Our editorial curation team reviews thousands of stories every day. We have over 35 curators with a diverse set of… help.medium.com 12. Did you get any feedback before submitting your post? Get into the habit of always asking a friend for feedback before publishing your article. Having worked so hard on that article, you wouldn’t want to let a silly mistake push readers away. If you don’t know who to ask, you can share it on this Discord server. Please note that this is a community-driven, maintained, and moderated project and is not an official extension of the Towards Data Science group. 13. Has your Medium profile been completed correctly? Please include your real name, a photo, and a bio. We don’t publish posts from anonymous people. If you want us and your readers to trust you, you have to reveal who you are. If you are a company and would like to publish with us, please note that we almost exclusively publish articles submitted from a Medium profile that belongs to a real person. 14. Are you getting better? Take a minute to reflect on the work you have been doing so far, and the current article you wish to publish. What value are you bringing, and to whom? In which ways are this article better or worse than the ones you previously published? Download our PDF version ? How do you submit an article? To become a writer, please send your article using our form. Please note that we only work on Medium. We don’t proofread articles published on your blog, a PDF, or a google doc. Contribute to the publication If you are having an issue with our online form, you can send a link to your article via email to publication@towardsdatascience.com. Please make sure to follow the instructions listed below: Do not email us an article that you have already sent via our form. While we have an open submission policy, we do not accept or publish all articles submitted to us. We cannot guarantee a reply to every article submission or email due to the volume of submissions we receive. Please note that we only work on Medium. We don’t proofread articles published on your blog, a PDF, or a google doc. We only publish articles that follow Medium’s curation guidelines. Please include your resume or a link to your LinkedIn profile in your email. Use your professional or academic email address. It helps us to verify your profile and resume. Finally, once you have published your first article with us, we will add you to the TDS Medium publication as a contributor and you will be able to submit subsequent articles directly through Medium. FAQs What happens when I submit my article to TDS? ? What happens when a post is added to Towards Data Science? What should I expect from your editorial team? Where does my post appear once published? Can I send a post that I have already published on Medium? Yes, if it’s not already in another publication. Can I duplicate a post? Yes if the original article is outside Medium. But don’t duplicate a post that you have already published on Medium. Can I publish a series of articles? Not anymore, but you can create a column. My post has been refused, could you let me know why? Can I pay to get published? No Can a company publish in TDS? Yes. But, we prefer to publish posts that are submitted from a Medium profile that belongs to a real person. How do you establish the quality of your publication? All our FAQs Change log [Starting from January 2020] Jan 18, 2020: We addressed FAQs and clarified our legal operating name (Towards Data Science Inc.). Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 1.94K Join Us Tds Team Writers Guide 1.94K claps Written by TDS Team Follow Sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Learn more about us here: http://bit.ly/2HYahYe Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (14) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
