https://towardsdatascience.com/join-us-as-an-editorial-associate-of-towards-data-science-766cdd74d13e?source=collection_category---4------2-----------------------
Join us as an Editorial Associate - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Join us as an Editorial Associate We are inviting applications for Editorial Associate positions on a 6-month, voluntary basis TDS Team Follow Oct 18, 2017 · 2 min read Our Team | About Us All our editorial associate’s positions are now filled. We will re-open applications in May 2020. Many thanks for your interest. Towards Data Science provides a platform for thousands of people to exchange ideas and to expand our understanding of data science. Our audience is mixed, consisting of readers entirely new to the subject and expert professionals who want to share their inventions and discoveries. Now that our audience is significantly larger, we have become aware of our responsibility to present readers with high-quality content. From today, we are inviting applications for Editorial Associate positions on a 6-month, voluntary basis. If this interests you, read on! Why become an Editorial Associate? Become an influencer within a fast-developing field Help steer a rapidly growing publication Network with experts in industry and research Contribute to our YouTube channel Be a part of the launch of our upcoming projects Six months free Medium membership The role is currently unpaid. What are we expecting from you? We are looking for ambitious, talented individuals who want to play a key role in raising the quality of our publication as we seek to develop Towards Data Science into the leading online Data Science community for beginners and professionals alike. Priority will be given to applicants with a strong writing portfolio and relevant experience in industry or research. Your responsibilities will include taking 45 minutes to 2 hours per week to work directly with our writers to source, edit and publish first-class content relating to the field of Data Science and surrounding concepts. This will involve: Providing feedback to authors on their use of style, tone, presentation and grammar Cross-checking facts and verifying any unsupported claims Detecting and removing plagiarism Providing help and advice to our editors Please give us a hand on our social media! If you use Facebook, Linkedin or Twitter, we would appreciate interactions, comments, and shares. How to apply To become an Editorial Associate, send your CV or LinkedIn profile to publication@towardsdatascience.com. Please, use your professional or academic email address. It helps us to verify your profile and resume. You are strongly encouraged to attach examples of your previous writing! We look forward to hearing from you. All the best, Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 355 Writing Data Science 355 claps Written by TDS Team Follow Sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Learn more about us here: http://bit.ly/2HYahYe Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (6) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
