https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-create-your-own-column-in-towards-data-science-e25500b9ede5?source=collection_category---4------0-----------------------
How to create your own column in Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Writers’ Guide How to create your own column in Towards Data Science How to publish multiple articles that focus on the same topic TDS Team Follow Mar 29, 2019 · 2 min read Photo by Andrew Neel on Unsplash ? Updated on Dec 9th, 2019: As we now only accept articles that follow Medium’s curation guidelines, we will no longer be publishing stories that are split into multiple posts. You can still use our column format but you need to present your posts in a way that allows each of them to be read separately. Make sure each post works on its own without additional context and do not call them “Part x”, or “Episode x”. In January 2019 one of our most prolific authors, Will Koehrsen, decided to launch a new series of articles that were quite different from the ones he had published so far in Towards Data Science. He wanted this new series of articles to be focused on using data for becoming less wrong about the world and he called this new series of posts The Reality Project. Like Will, many contributors would like to create their own series of articles that explains a special aspect of their work or dives deep into an idea they would like to explore over several months. Often our authors would like to feature these series in a special way in Towards Data Science, that is separate from their other posts. We believe we have found a way for them to do exactly that. Examples: Our Writer’s Guide by TDS Team The Reality Project by Will Koehrsen Light on Math Machine Learning by Thushan Ganegedara Our solution is pretty simple but it enables any contributor to create their own column. If you are interested, here is how you can create your own column in Towards Data Science: Add a special tag to your post. This tag needs to be unique and reflect your project. Once your post is published, your column page will be towardsdatascience.com/tagged/[your-tag]. Add a kicker to your post: How to add a kicker? (Watch our video) Add a title Add a subtitle (below your title) Add a kicker. It’s like adding a subtitle but above your title. Now you can add a link from your kicker to your column’s page. Great job! Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 121 Tds Team Writers Guide 121 claps Written by TDS Team Follow Sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Learn more about us here: http://bit.ly/2HYahYe Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (3) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
