https://towardsdatascience.com/contribute-to-our-collections-94aafae1494f?source=collection_category---4------1-----------------------
Contribute to our Collections - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Writers’ Guide Contribute to our Collections Add your latest article to one of our collections TDS Team Follow Mar 28, 2019 · 2 min read Our collections gather exciting and diverse viewpoints on different aspects of Data Science. Currently, we have five collections to which you can contribute: Data Science in the Real World. What are the most pressing problems in data science and what can we do to solve them? Data Journalism. How data science helps us understand the world and the media. In-Depth Analysis. Featuring interesting and complete (end-to-end) data analysis. Inside AI. How AI works, what problems can it solve, what are the potential risks, and what does it mean for the rest of us? Sports Analytics. The intersection of data science and athletics. How to add your post to one of our collections? Make sure that your post is a good fit! Add a tag to your post: “DS in the Real World”, “Data Journalism”, “In Depth Analysis”, “Inside AI”, or “Sports”. This tag will automatically feature your post to our collection. Add a kicker with the name of the collection (and a link): How to add a kicker? (Watch our video) Add a title Add a subtitle (below your title) Add a kicker. It’s like adding a subtitle but above your title. Don’t forget to add the link from your kicker to our collections page! Great job! Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 29 Tds Team Writers Guide 29 claps Written by TDS Team Follow Sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Learn more about us here: http://bit.ly/2HYahYe Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (2) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
