https://towardsdatascience.com/writers-faq-462571b65b35?source=collection_category---4------0-----------------------
Our FAQs - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Writers’ Guide Our FAQs Updated on Feb, 2020 TDS Team Follow Jul 12, 2018 · 12 min read About Us | Our Team | Feedback Table of Contents Our FAQs that contain the envelope emoji (??) are the questions we regularly get asked via email. About About Towards Data Science, Our team, Milestones ? How do you establish the quality of your publication? Readers How to get the most out of Towards Data Science? How do I unsubscribe from your letters? Do I need to pay to read your publication? Writers Where can I find your latest publication’s numbers? What to expect from your editorial team? ?? When is the best time to publish? ?? How can I earn money with Towards Data Science? What happens when I submit my article to TDS? ??? What happens when a post is added to Towards Data Science? How can TDS help me reach a broader audience? ?? Where does my post appear once published? ?? Can I send a post I have already published on Medium? ??? Can I duplicate a post? How often can I submit posts? Can I publish a series of articles? ?? My post has been refused, could you let me know why? ?? I haven’t received any reply from you within 5 working days? How can I improve my writing skills? Can I pay to get published? Why I can’t submit my articles anymore? ?? Why has my article(s) been removed from your publication? What kind of advertising, sponsored content or call to action do you allow? Can a company publish in TDS? ?? Should I use my real name on my Medium profile? ?? Do you publish only in English? Can I translate a post to another language? Others Why has my account been suspended? Why can’t I sign in to my account? How can I suggest an edit to a post that you already published? ?? How can I reach your authors? Do you have an online chat or a Facebook group? How to contact you? About What are your terms of service? As we are a Medium publication, we follow their Terms of Service. How do you establish the quality of your publication? Readers How to get the most out of Towards Data Science? How do I unsubscribe from your letters? Go to our publication’s homepage. Click the Following button on the publication’s header. Uncheck the Receive Letters to your inbox box. You can also unsubscribe by clicking the Unsubscribe button at the bottom of the Letter you’ve received from TDS, or from your Publications page, accessible via the user icon menu. Do I need to pay to read your publication? No, we’ll always have free articles available to read for everyone interested in Data Science. However, as we are part of the Medium ecosystem, our authors can decide to lock their posts to members only. Please click here to learn more. Writers How to write for Towards Data Science? Where can I find your latest publication’s numbers? What to expect from your editorial team? ?? When is the best time to publish? ?? How can I earn money with Towards Data Science? Writers can choose to meter stories that are in TDS, and earn money through the Medium Partner Program based on engagement from Medium members. “Metering” refers to making a story eligible to earn money behind Medium’s metered paywall. (Read more) We are happy to publish member-only posts and push them to our audience as the others posts. If you want to publish a member-only post, please ensure to have a great one and to respect the Member Content Guidelines. What happens when I submit my article to TDS? Thank you so much for taking the time to submit your article to our team! We will review it as soon as we can. If we believe that your article is excellent and ready to go, this is how you will be able to add your post to our publication. If “Towards Data Science” shows up after you click on “Add to publication” in the dropdown menu at the top of the page, that means we have added you as an author and are waiting for you to submit your article. Once you have submitted your article, it will be reviewed by an editor before a final decision is made. If we think that your article is interesting but needs to be improved, someone from our team will provide you with feedback directly on your submitted Medium article. Please note that we only respond to articles that were properly submitted using either our form or via an email that exactly follows the instructions listed here. We don’t respond to pitches or questions already answered in our FAQs or on our Contribute page. We also ignore articles that don’t comply with our rules. If you haven’t heard from us within the next five working days, please carefully check the article you submitted to our team. See if you can now submit it directly to TDS and look for any private notes from us that you may have missed. You should also make sure to check your spam folder. If you just can’t reach us, the best thing for you to do is submit your article to another publication. Although we’d love to, we can’t provide customized feedback to everyone because we simply receive too many submissions. You can learn more about our decision here and submit another post in a month. What happens when a post is added to Towards Data Science? You will be credited as the author of the post and retain all ownership rights to your content. You will be listed as a writer of Towards Data Science. Your post will use the publication’s URL, but will still be available on your profile. Your original pre-publication URL will still point to your post. Your post will be distributed in the feeds and digests of your followers, plus the followers of the publication. You stay in control. We only directly edit your content to correct basic spelling mistakes and update minimal formatting. Otherwise, our team will only leave private notes to suggest more substantive changes and provide feedback. You can remove your post at any time. How can TDS help me reach a broader audience? ?? Here are a few things we do to ensure your articles reach the largest audience possible: We have a custom domain. Articles published on TDS are published on towardsdatascience.com instead of medium.com/towards-data-science/ which helps drive more organic traffic to your article. We also have our own tags’ pages, like data journalism for example, and we have author pages like this. We feature our best content on our publication. We are constantly working to feature amazing new stories as soon as they’re published, which means that every author who submits a great story has a chance to make it into one of our featured spots. Every single day, we share the best articles we’ve published with our active social community: Linkedin, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram. We send weekly and monthly newsletters that feature stories and writers from Towards Data Science. Our best authors are regularly invited to join us on our podcast channel or invited to speak at events. You can find our publication’s latest numbers here. ? Where does my post appear once published? ?? If your post is recent, it will appear on our homepage below “Latest”. Depending on your tags, your post will also appear on our different pages. Your post will still appear on your profile, our publication feed and Medium’s feed. Before submitting your post make sure you read Medium’s Curation Guidelines. Even our best authors tend to make basic mistakes that disqualify their article from being distributed in Medium’s topics (Data Science, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence …), and from being featured on Towards Data Science’s homepage. Here is where you can start: Complete your profile on Medium Write a clear and descriptive title and subtitle for your story (like here) Include a featured image Remove any promotional material, calls-to-action or requests for claps We tag some posts “Towards Data Science” because it’s our most effective way of organising our homepage, building our ‘Editor’s Picks’ section, preparing the Weekly Selection, and social media feed. You can remove this tag whenever you like, but your post will disappear from all of those places we’re trying to feature your work! Please don’t add this tag yourself. You can read this article to see how to get featured on our home page. If your post were selected, you would be mentioned only on Twitter. Please ensure that your medium profile contains your Twitter account. It can take several weeks or just a few hours to get your post featured on our social media. It depends on how much we believe your post is an excellent read for our audience. Finally, your post will be searchable in our publication, appears in our archive, and be recommended to our readers at the bottom of other articles written by your peers. Can I send a post I have already published on Medium? ?? Yes, as long as your article is relevant to our readers, we are interested in adding it to TDS. Please do not duplicate your article on Medium! They do not allow posting duplicate content on their platform. Can I duplicate a post? Cross-posting content you have published elsewhere (not on Medium.com) is allowed provided it follows the Medium guidelines and that your post wasn’t already published on Medium. How often can I submit posts? You can send us about four or five posts per week maximum. We don’t impose a minimum. Writers can publish only one time with us. My post has been refused, could you let me know why? ?? We can’t provide customized feedback to everyone as we receive too many submissions. The main reason why we refuse a post is because we believe it won’t provide enough value to our readers. It could be that your post: Isn’t related to data science, statistics, analytics, machine learning or AI. Is too basic (like a 3 minutes introduction to R) and doesn’t convey new ideas or concepts. Contains too many grammatical or orthographic errors. Is just a copy and paste of your programming code without a detailed explanation. Is a selection of other posts (like weekly digest), or is a selection of blogs, website, or other sources. Your Medium profile isn’t properly completed. Please ensure you have completed your full name, picture and bio. We don’t publish posts from anonymous people or from companies. Contains advertisements or is a commercial call to action. Contains plagiarism. We use a variety of tools for detection. Your post is too far from our guidelines or Medium’s Curation Guidelines. If we refuse your post for reasons besides those listed above, we will let you know. We strive to present well-written, informative articles that our audience is excited to read. You can get inspired by our letters, and use reverse engineering to understand why these posts work so well. Then, feel free to resubmit a new post. I haven’t received a reply from you within 5 working days, what should I do? We don’t respond to emails asking a question that is clearly stated in our FAQs or on our Contribute page. Also, we don’t respond to direct messages on Facebook, LinkedIn or Twitter. Ensure that your Medium’s notifications are on. Your post might have been declined/published on Medium directly, but if you deactivated your notifications on Medium, you might have missed it. If your message isn’t related to the cases above, please try to re-submit it to the address listed at the end of our FAQs. I am disappointed in my article’s statistics. What can I do? We are sorry that your article did not perform as well as you expected. We understand the effort you must have put into your work. Here are some things you can do that may increase the number of views: Make sure you include a feature image, subtitle and short title to attract visitors to your article. Follow our checklist, advice and writers’ guide. Make sure that you follow Medium’s Curation Guidelines. Even our best authors sometimes make mistakes that disqualify their article from Medium’s topics page. Finally, ask one or more friends to provide you with honest feedback on your article. Sometimes a large proportion of your article’s views may not be generated directly from the Towards Data Science website. This is because we relay articles to many different traffic sources such as Medium’s feed, Flipboard, social media and newsletters. This allows your article to be accessed from multiple portals, giving you greater exposure. How can I improve my writing skills? The Internet is full of great resources to help improve writing. Yet, we find that many authors lack some basic skills, which prevent them from correctly getting their message across. Here is our selection of writing resources: How To Be A Better Writer: 6 Tips From Harvard’s Steven Pinker Steven Pinker’s Sense of Style Writing for an academic journal: 10 tips. The Guardian How to Write a Blog Post (That Actually Gets Read) 10 tips for writing a truly terrible journal article 6 of the Best Pieces of Advice from Successful Writers Timeless Advice on Writing: The Collected Wisdom of Great Writers Before writing your article, you need to be very clear about what you are trying to achieve. Once you have formed the idea for your post, you should try to answer these questions: What is the goal or purpose of your article? What key question is your article trying to answer? Does the content answer the main question of your article? Does your article start strong and finish strong? (Did you create a mystery/issue and then resolve it?) Is each concept bared to its essentials, narrated in an orderly sequence and illustrated with analogies? To build your first draft, you can use a mind-map. This is a great tool to see how your content should be structured. In addition, every day, we refuse articles because they don’t follow our guidelines. Before submitting your work, please make sure you read these two posts. How to have your work featured as one of our top picks on Towards Data Science Submitting your article checklist Can I pay to get published? No, we don’t allow sponsored posts. Why I can’t submit my articles anymore? ?? Medium could have suspended your account. We can’t suspend any accounts. If your account has been suspended, please contact Medium. Our team might have discovered a plagiarism issue within one of your articles. Or you might have added advertising within your post after we approved it. Please note that this goes against Medium rules. We are continuously trying to improve our publication in every way we can. That means raising our quality standards, enforcing our submission requirements, and adopting Medium’s curation guidelines for every article we publish. If our editorial team declines several submissions in a row, we might remove the author so they can take more time to work on their articles before submitting them again via emails. We can’t provide customized feedback to everyone as we receive too many submissions. But you can learn more about the decision here. Why has my article(s) been removed from your Medium publication? Our team will remove your article(s) if we discover any rule violations. For instance, our team might have found a plagiarism issue within one of your articles. Or you might have added advertising within your post after we approved it. What kind of advertising, sponsored content, or call to action do you allow? We don’t allow any advertising or sponsored posts. We only allow discrete and valuable redirections within your posts. Can a company publish in TDS? ?? Yes. But, we prefer to publish posts that are submitted from a Medium profile that belongs to a real person. Also, we don’t allow advertising and don’t propose writing services. Should I use my real name on my Medium profile? ?? Yes, please include your real name, photo, and bio. We don’t publish posts from an anonymous person. If you want us and your readers to trust you, you have to reveal who you are. Do you publish only in English? Yes. Can I translate a post to another language? You will need to contact the author of the post directly. Articles belong to authors so we can’t approve their translation for them. You can reach them by leaving comments on their posts, or sometimes you can reach them on LinkedIn. Others Why has my account been suspended? We can’t suspend any accounts. If your account has been suspended please read the Medium Rules. Why can’t I sign in to my account? We do not own or have any control over your medium account. Please read the Medium Rules and contact them in case of any issues with your account. How can I suggest an edit to a post that you already published? ???? If you are the author of the post, feel free to add small changes, improvements and updates. You don’t need to let us know. If you aren’t the author of the post, but want to suggest some changes, please contact the author directly. Articles belong to authors so we can’t change it for them. You can reach them by leaving comments on their posts, or sometimes you can reach them on LinkedIn. For plagiarism or other important complaints, please contact us directly. How can I reach your authors? You can reach them by leaving comments on their posts, or sometimes you can reach them on LinkedIn or on their personal website. We don’t disclose their email address. Do you have an online chat or a Facebook group? We have an official, un-moderated group on Facebook, and LinkedIn. Our community also created a Discord server. Please note that this is a community-driven, maintained, and moderated project and is not an official extension of the Towards Data Science group. How to contact you? You can contact us here. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 110 Tds Team Writers Guide 110 claps Written by TDS Team Follow Sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Learn more about us here: http://bit.ly/2HYahYe Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (3) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
