https://towardsdatascience.com/what-to-expect-from-our-editorial-team-eea5e903499c?source=collection_category---4------1-----------------------
Four Common Questions Our Editorial Team Receives - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Writers’ Guide Four Common Questions Our Editorial Team Receives Our Open Editorial Guidelines TDS Team Follow May 11, 2018 · 6 min read Pixabay — Jess Watters What should I expect from your editorial team? You stay in control. We only directly edit your content to correct basic spelling mistakes and update minimal formatting. Otherwise, our team will only leave private notes to suggest more substantive changes and provide feedback. We only publish articles that follow Medium’s curation guidelines. You can read the guidelines here and prepare your article for publication using our own checklist and writers’ guide. We may change one or two tags before publication. We would do this only to keep our different sections relevant to our readers. For instance, we would want to avoid tagging a post on linear regression as “Artificial Intelligence”. If you don’t have at least 5 tags, we might add some for you. Tags on Medium are critical for driving interested readers to your post. So unless you explicitly let us know that you don’t want more than what you’ve already added, we’re going to try help you out! Remember, the content is still yours, so you can always change or remove them. Occasionally, we’ll add the “Towards Data Science” tag. We tag some posts “Towards Data Science” because it’s our most effective way of organising our home page, building our ‘Articles We Enjoyed’ section, and preparing the Weekly Selection. You can remove this tag whenever you like, but your post will disappear from all of those places we’re trying to feature your work. Please don’t add this tag yourself. You can read this article to see how to get featured on our home page. We love beautiful pictures. A nice picture attracts and stimulates readers. That is why all the best newspapers always display awesome pictures. Here is what you can do to add one to your post: take one yourself, make a great graph, or use Pixabay or Unsplash. Please remember to cite the source of your picture. We save our energy for where we can add the most value. If your post is already great then we might leave feedback to share ideas, to encourage you, or to let you know that we liked your contribution. But we won’t spend too much time trying to improve a great post. In contrast, if your post isn’t related to data science or machine learning, if it’s just short text with a bunch of ads and links, or if there is no value delivered to the reader; we will decline it without offering detailed feedback on how to improve it. Instead, we’ll advise that you read our Contribute page and submit a new post when you’re ready. If you have worked hard on something you think is worth sharing, but we feel there is room for improvement, your post will be assigned to an editorial associate who will try to guide you towards making it TDS-ready! We verify unsupported claims and attempt to detect plagiarism. We refuse to publish authors that don’t provide supporting evidence to justify their claims or support their argument against a position, and we ban anyone identified as including plagiarism in their content. We continue to learn as a team on how to offer you better feedback. We learn from three primary sources: our own experience, the experience of other publications, and through the art & science of sound writing. Our goal is to offer you the most valuable feedback, the kind you need to level-up the quality of your post. In doing so, we created Editorial Guidelines that we are sharing below. How do you establish the quality of your publication? We want to make sure we’re offering you the best articles we can find. Before any new author can publish a story on Towards Data Science, we review their resume and their LinkedIn profile, we look at any previous posts they’ve written, and we verify their professional or academic email address whenever possible. Before we publish every post, we make sure that it follows the standards set in both our writer’s guide and in Medium’s curation guidelines. If you’re interested in publishing an article with Towards Data Science, take a look at our writer’s guide and downloadable submission checklist. These are great resources that you should take advantage of to ensure that your work can be published. You should also be aware that we have adopted Medium’s curation guidelines for every article we publish. This means that if your post isn’t of a high enough quality to be curated or doesn’t follow the curation guidelines, we won’t publish it on Towards Data Science. These guidelines also mean that we don’t allow any ads or sponsored content. We are constantly vigilant about making sure that our readers don’t see any opinions that have been bought and paid for, and nobody can pay our team to be published. Our author’s earnings are based on how much time Medium members spend reading their articles. This earning structure not only diminishes any incentive for creating clickbait articles, but it incentivizes us to provide and promote only the highest quality content. We are a small team and our work would not be possible without our incredible editorial associates. As is the case in most bottom-up movements and organizations, we are learning as we go and constantly working to improve our publication in every way we can. We publish the best content we can find from writers around the world who have varying degrees of experience with programming, technology, and writing. We don’t necessarily endorse or agree with the content written by every one of our thousands of contributors, and we do publish controversial opinions when we believe that they have the potential to create valuable discussions. That being said, we are human, we do make mistakes, and we occasionally miss errors in articles we publish. If you feel that you’ve found something that violates Medium’s standards, Medium has made it easy to report any posts and users who violate its rules. We have also made it easy for our community to make a complaint, and we welcome your feedback and concerns. What are the elements of good writing? The author has something to say. An important message, a point worth hearing, a major idea ? We are given a reason to care. The author demonstrates why we should read what they’re writing, and what the impact is. The answer matches the question. Whether or not the arguments are convincing, they’re narrated in an orderly sequence and attempt to answer the key questions that the author has posed. The story is visible. As the psychologist Steven Pinker put it: “Good writers narrate a story, advanced by protagonists who make things happen.” We aren’t just told what is happening, we can see it with our own eyes. The article is worth sharing. Once we read it, we want to share it as we can see that this text will help other people. It starts strong and goes out with a bang. By the time we’re done reading, we feel like we’ve learned something. The article respect Medium’s Curation Guidelines. Why is good writing so hard and how can you help your writers get better? Writing isn’t natural. If language is more than several hundreds of thousands of years old, writing is a very recent invention, and it doesn’t come naturally to any of us. It is a life-long challenge to master. We can acknowledge the difficulty of what our authors are trying to do, be patient, and encourage them. ? The curse of knowledge: “The curse of knowledge is the single best explanation I know of why good people write bad prose. It simply doesn’t occur to the writer that her readers don’t know what she knows — that they haven’t mastered the patois of her guild, can’t divine the missing steps that seem too obvious to mention, have no way to visualise a scene that to her is as clear as day. And so she doesn’t bother to explain the jargon, or spell out the logic, or supply the necessary detail.” Steven Pinker. We can flag an unclear passage or missed connection. We can be the test reader for the author, be the first person to share and conceptualize their ideas. The text doesn’t have a direction. We don’t see any major idea or don’t understand the author’s goal. After reading it, we feel lost. We can invite them to re-frame it by answering a key question: what is the purpose of the post? Why did they decide to write it in the first place? English isn’t the author’s first language, and so the post contains orthographic and grammatical errors. We can help the author to see their mistakes and fix any broken sentences. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 156 Thanks to Ludovic Benistant, Wendy Wong, and Joshua Fleming.  Tds Team Editing Writers Guide Ask Us Anything 156 claps Written by TDS Team Follow Sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Learn more about us here: http://bit.ly/2HYahYe Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (1) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
