https://t.co/sG2PxzKFOo
COVID19: Keeping track of R0, daily new cases, and where to find them. (world, Australia, Victoria) Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute COVID19: Keeping track of R0, daily new cases, and where to find them. (world, Australia, Victoria) TLDR: It is very easy to get lost in the noise of COVID19, what news is real and is fake, which statistics to pay attention to. Answer: R0, WHO, and your government (if you trust your government). Go to the end of this article for links. Arian Prabowo Follow Mar 27 · 4 min read Epistemic status: Degree in statistic? Nope! Degree in epidemiology? Nope! I am under-qualified and over-opinionated in writing this. (last content update: 27 March 2020). (The reason I focus on Australia and Victoria data is because I’m based in Melbourne at the moment. And although I am from Indonesia, I don’t trust the Indonesian data enough to make any analysis from it.) Which statistic to pay attention to, to keep track of COVID19? Photo by Clay Banks on Unsplash. What is R0? R0 or basic reproduction number, tells you if things are getting worse or better. R0=1 generally means we are halfway through, and things will get better. You can stop panicking, but stay vigilant. However, R0 don’t really get published a lot, because it is hard to infer R0 when the data is really noisy. I tried. So instead, let’s keep track of DAILY NEW CASES. Ask yourself this 1 question: Has it peaked or is it going down? Remember, this data is noisy, so don’t jump into conclusions based on few days. I generally say that we need to wait between a week or two to conclusively say anything. Where and how? For world data, I trust John Hopkins. They are not perfect, so don’t trust completely either. This is the link: https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/map.html Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center Johns Hopkins experts in global public health, infectious disease, and emergency preparedness have been at the… coronavirus.jhu.edu Go to bottom right, and click “Daily Increase” as shown in the image below. https://www.reddit.com/r/uselessredcircle/ This is the data from 27 Marc 2020. It is still going up, not good. (Remember, whatever social distancing policy kicked today, the impact is only seen in 2 weeks. Also, whatever is being shown here, is the impact of whatever the world was doing 2 weeks ago.) Australia For Australia, I trust the health department: https://www.health.gov.au/news/health-alerts/novel-coronavirus-2019-ncov-health-alert/coronavirus-covid-19-current-situation-and-case-numbers Scroll down a bit and you will find this: The daily new case is the light blue bar chart with the axis on the left. The good news is, as of 6:30am on 27 March 2020, R0<1 for 3 days straight. Which means that the bar chart is steadily going down. Definitely too early to celebrate. But if this trends continues, the worse has come to pass. Assuming this trend continues, the peak is at around 2 000 cases. So the estimated total is around double that, 4 000 cases. Australia has 90 000 hospital beds and 2,000 ventilators, and only 19% display severe or worse symptoms (based on Chinese data). 2 000 x 19% = 380 severe or worse patients > 2 000 available ventilators (although we have existing patients who are already using the ventilators for non-COVID19 reasons). So it seems this will be manageable. BUT THIS IS ONLY TRUE IF PEOPLE KEEP UP SOCIAL DISTANCING! The most stupid thing people can do is to look at the data, misinterpret it as things are over, relax their social distancing, and putting all the previous efforts to waste. (Maybe in the near the future (few weeks), the government might relax the social distancing a little bit, control the incoming 2nd wave very precisely, to slowly build herd immunity in a controllable manner. But let defer all the decisions to the experts.) Victoria For Victoria, also the state’s health department: https://app.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiODBmMmE3NWQtZWNlNC00OWRkLTk1NjYtMjM2YTY1MjI2NzdjIiwidCI6ImMwZTA2MDFmLTBmYWMtNDQ5Yy05Yzg4LWExMDRjNGViOWYyOCJ9 Power BI Report Report powered by Power BI app.powerbi.com The daily new case is the dark blue bar chart with the axis on the left. Is it really slowing down? It is really hard to tell. Is it really slowing down? For 3 times, we have R0 < 0 for 2 or 3 days in a row, only for it to spike up the next day, to reach a new height, worst than ever before. That is why we have to wait a week or two before reaching any conclusion, and not to get too optimistic with the Australian data just yet. References and acknowledgement All images are based on the sources below (unless otherwise captioned.): World (John Hopkins): https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/map.html Australia (health department): https://www.health.gov.au/news/health-alerts/novel-coronavirus-2019-ncov-health-alert/coronavirus-covid-19-current-situation-and-case-numbers Victoria (health department): https://app.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiODBmMmE3NWQtZWNlNC00OWRkLTk1NjYtMjM2YTY1MjI2NzdjIiwidCI6ImMwZTA2MDFmLTBmYWMtNDQ5Yy05Yzg4LWExMDRjNGViOWYyOCJ9 Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Covid 19 Statistics Australia Melbourne Data Science Written by Arian Prabowo Follow PhD student in Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Graph & Spatiotemporal data. Degree in physics, physiology, teaching. https://sites.google.com/view/arianprabowo Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Write the first response More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
