https://t.co/8IeYIGASu4
Building Differentially private Machine Learning Models Using TensorFlow Privacy | Chang Liu - YouTube Skip navigation CA Sign in Search Loading... We’ll stop supporting this browser soon. For the best experience please update your browser. Close This video is unavailable. Watch Queue Queue Watch QueueQueue Remove all Disconnect The next video is startingstop Loading... Watch Queue Queue __count__/__total__ Find out whyClose Building Differentially private Machine Learning Models Using TensorFlow Privacy | Chang Liu Towards Data Science Loading... Unsubscribe from Towards Data Science? Cancel Unsubscribe Working... SubscribeSubscribedUnsubscribe2.75K Loading... Loading... Working... Add to Want to watch this again later? Sign in to add this video to a playlist. Sign in Share More Report Need to report the video? Sign in to report inappropriate content. Sign in Transcript Add translations 261 views 5 Like this video? Sign in to make your opinion count. Sign in 6 0 Don't like this video? Sign in to make your opinion count. Sign in 1 Loading... Loading... Transcript The interactive transcript could not be loaded. Loading... Rating is available when the video has been rented. This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Published on Mar 24, 2020 A talk from the Toronto Machine Learning Summit: https://torontomachinelearning.com/ The video is hosted by https://towardsdatascience.com/ About the speaker: Chang Liu is an Applied Research Scientist and a member of the Georgian Impact team. She brings her in-depth knowledge of mathematical and combinatorial optimization to helping Georgian's portfolio companies. Chang holds a Master's of Applied Science in Operations Research from the University of Toronto, where she specialized in combinatorial optimization. She also holds a Bachelor's Degree in mathematics from the University of Waterloo. About the talk: This talk will introduce differential privacy and its use cases, discuss the new component of the TensorFlow Privacy library, and offer real-world scenarios for how to apply the tools. In recent years, the world has become increasingly data-driven and individuals and organizations have developed a stronger awareness and concern for the privacy of their sensitive data. It has been shown that it is impossible to disclose statistical results about a private database without revealing some information. In fact, the entire database could be recovered from a few query results. Following research on the privacy of sensitive databases, a number of big players such as Google, Apple, and Uber have turned to differential privacy to help guarantee the privacy of sensitive data. That attention from major technology firms has helped bring differential privacy out of research labs and into the realm of software engineering and product development. Differential privacy is now something that smaller firms and software startups are adopting and finding great value in. Apart from privacy guarantees, advances in differential privacy also allow businesses to unlock more capabilities and increased data utility. One of these capabilities includes the ability to transfer knowledge from existing data through differentially private ensemble models without data privacy concerns. As differential privacy garners recognition in large tech companies, efforts to make current state-of-the-art research more accessible to the general public and small startups are underway. As a contribution to the broader community, Georgian Partners has provided its differential privacy library to the TensorFlow community. Together, we will make differentially private stochastic gradient descent available in a user-friendly and easy-to-use API that allows users to train private logistic regression. Category Education Show more Show less Loading... Autoplay When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next. Up next Machine Learning with R and TensorFlow - Duration: 59:44. RStudio Recommended for you 59:44 Tutorial: Differential Privacy and Learning: The Tools, The Results, and The Frontier - Duration: 1:55:51. Microsoft Research Recommended for you 1:55:51 Taming the swarm - Collective Artificial Intelligence | Radhika Nagpal | TEDxBermuda - Duration: 17:10. TEDx Talks Recommended for you 17:10 How to Checkmate with Bishop and Knight - Duration: 14:10. ChessNetwork Recommended for you 14:10 Can we make quantum technology work? | Leo Kouwenhoven | TEDxAmsterdam - Duration: 18:20. TEDx Talks Recommended for you 18:20 Engineering Connections (Richard Hammond) - Formula 1 | Science Documentary | Reel Truth Science - Duration: 49:59. Reel Truth Science Documentaries Recommended for you 49:59 Self-Learning Data Science and Sharing the Knowledge on Medium (w/ Will Koehrsen) - Duration: 30:52. Towards Data Science 423 views 30:52 How To Fix Forward Head Posture - 3 Easy Exercises (From a Chiropractor) - Duration: 10:12. Back Intelligence Recommended for you 10:12 Data Science @ The New York Times | Christopher Wiggins - Duration: 28:57. Towards Data Science 667 views 28:57 Artificial Intelligence, the History and Future - with Chris Bishop - Duration: 1:01:22. The Royal Institution Recommended for you 1:01:22 COVID-19 | Corona Virus: Epidemiology, Pathophysiology, Diagnostics - Duration: 50:39. Ninja Nerd Science Recommended for you 50:39 Engineering Connections Earthquake Proof Bridge | Science Documentary | Reel Truth Science - Duration: 49:59. Reel Truth Science Documentaries Recommended for you 49:59 An Introduction to LSTMs in Tensorflow - Duration: 59:46. MITCBMM 101,373 views 59:46 From the Lab to the Factory: Building a Production Machine Learning Infrastructure - Duration: 1:04:28. CernerEng 20,855 views 1:04:28 Chris Parmer - Plotly founder on what data science is, and where it’s going - Duration: 7:54. Towards Data Science 108 views 7:54 A Scalable Prediction Engine for Automating Structured Data Prep | Ihab Ilyas - Duration: 31:48. Towards Data Science 989 views 31:48 Game of the Century - Bobby Fischer vs Donald Byrne - Duration: 24:53. thechesswebsite Recommended for you 24:53 Real Talk with Machine Learning Engineer (w/ CS Dojo) - Duration: 29:04. Towards Data Science 457 views 29:04 Lesson 1 - Voltage, Current, Resistance (Engineering Circuit Analysis) - Duration: 41:25. Math and Science Recommended for you 41:25 I'm Sorry Dave, I Can't Do That: Practical Machine Learning for Information Security | SANS@MIC Talk - Duration: 1:32:05. SANS Institute 131 views New 1:32:05 Language: English Location: Canada Restricted Mode: Off History Help Loading... Loading... Loading... About Press Copyright Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety Send feedback Test new features Loading... Working... Sign in to add this to Watch Later Add to Loading playlists...
