https://t.co/V6BtRygXDf
How similar is COVID-19 to previously discovered Coronaviruses Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute How similar is COVID-19 to previously discovered Coronaviruses A simple comparison of composition profiles of different coronavirus genomes Vijini Mallawaarachchi Follow Mar 27 · 6 min read With the availability of genome data for COVID-19 publicly on National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), I wanted to see how similar was the 2019 novel coronavirus when compared to other coronaviruses. In this article, I will compare the reference genome of COVID-19 with the reference genomes of two different coronaviruses discovered previously; one human coronavirus and one bat coronavirus. For this analysis, I have considered the following three coronavirus genomes. SARS coronavirus ZJ0301 Bat SARS-like coronavirus isolate bat-SL-CoVZC45 COVID-19 (SARS-CoV-2) Image by Olga Lionart from Pixabay Criteria considered I have considered a few criteria to compare the composition of the selected coronaviruses. Oligonucleotide composition GC content Oligonucleotide composition An oligonucleotide is considered to be a contiguous string of a small number of nucleotides. In computational terms, we define oligonucleotides as k-mers (words of size k). In this comparison, I have considered 3-mers (also known as trimers of trinucleotides) and their composition (trinucleotide composition). There are 32 (4³/2) distinct 3-mers. We obtain the normalised frequencies of each distinct trinucleotide by counting the number of occurrences of that trinucleotide and dividing by the total number of trinucleotides. We normalise these counts to avoid any unevenness caused due to different lengths of sequences. Normalised freqeuncy of k? = Number of occurrences of k? / total number of k-mers (where k? is the i?? k-mer) The oligonucleotide composition is considered to be conserved within microbial species and varies between species [1][2]. GC content GC content (or guanine-cytosine content) is the percentage of nucleotides in a sequence that are either guanine or cytosine. GC content = (G + C) / (A + G + C + T) * 100 The GC content is also believed to vary between different species[2]. Individual Analysis of Coronavirus Genomes Let us first analyse the coronavirus genomes individually. 1. SARS coronavirus ZJ0301 Fig 1. Trinucleotide Composition of SARS coronavirus ZJ0301 This is the reference genome of the SARS coronavirus ZJ0301 reported from China which has been published in the year 2003 [3]. Publication: Severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus genotype and its characterization and Molecular biological analysis of genotyping and phylogeny of severe acute respiratory syndrome associated coronavirus Figure 1 denotes the trinucleotide composition of the SARS coronavirus ZJ0301. 2. Bat SARS-like coronavirus isolate bat-SL-CoVZC45 Fig 2. Trinucleotide Composition of Bat SARS-like coronavirus isolate bat-SL-CoVZC45 This is the reference genome of the bat SARS-like coronavirus [4] which is considered to be very closely related to COVID-19 [5]. Publication: Genomic characterization and infectivity of a novel SARS-like coronavirus in Chinese bats Figure 2 denotes the trinucleotide composition of the bat SARS-like coronavirus. 3. COVID-19 (SARS-CoV-2) Fig 3. Trinucleotide Composition of COVID-19 This is the latest reference genome published on NCBI for the 2019 novel coronavirus [5]. BioProject number: PRJNA603194 SRA data: SRX7636886 Publication: A new coronavirus associated with human respiratory disease in China Figure 3 denotes the trinucleotide composition of COVID-19. Comparison of different coronaviruses Trinucleotide composition Figures 1, 2 and 3 may seem to show the exact patterns and vary between the same range, but if we plot these together as shown in Figure 4, we can see some differences. We can observe that COVID-19 and bat-SL-CoV show very similar trinucleotide composition patterns compared to SARS-CoV (especially for 3-mers such as AGG, ATC, ATG, CTA, CTC, GAA and GTA). Fig 4. Trinucleotide Composition of different Coronaviruses Tetranucleotide composition Figure 5 denotes the tetranucleotide (4-mer or tetramer) composition patterns of the different coronavirus genomes. Similar trends to that of 3-mers can be seen (especially for 4-mers such as ACAA, AGAA, ATAA, CTAA and CATC). Fig 5. Tetranucleotide Composition of different Coronaviruses GC composition GC content of SARS-CoV:       40.23% GC content of bat-SL-CoVZC45: 38.35% GC content of COVID-19:       37.44% According to the GC content values listed above, we can say that bat-SL-CoVZC45 and COVID-19 have very similar GC content of~37–38%. Fig 6. GC Composition of different Coronaviruses PCA and t-SNE Analysis A two-dimensional PCA plot and a TSNE plot of the trinucleotide composition vectors of the 100 simulated reads of length 5000 bp from each of the three coronavirus genomes are shown in Figures 7 and 8. You can see that some points corresponding to COVID-19 (green points) and bat-SL-CoV (red points) are closer together than they are to SARS-CoV (blue points) in the plot. Fig 7. PCA plot of the trinucleotide composition vectors of the 100 reads of length 5000 bp from each of the three coronavirus genomes Fig 8. TSNE plot of the trinucleotide composition vectors of the 100 reads of length 5000 bp from each of the three coronavirus genomes Final Thoughts The findings in this article support the claims made in the recently published paper titled A new coronavirus associated with human respiratory disease in China where the authors state that the genome they have assembled is very closely related to the bat SARS-like coronavirus isolate bat SL-CoVZC45. The novel strain has indeed involved and changed since SARS-CoV was discovered in the year 2003. I have added a jupyter notebook with the code used for this article and feel free to try it out from the link below. For convenience, I have added the normalised 3-mer and 4-m34 counts directly in the notebook. If you want to calculate the counts by yourself, you can use a software such as khmer or DSK. You can read more about what people think about COVID-19, genome assembly and metagenomics from my previous articles. 2019 Novel Coronavirus: People’s thoughts A simple sentiment analysis of 2019 novel coronavirus outbreak using Twitter towardsdatascience.com Genome Assembly — The Holy Grail of Genome Analysis Assembling the 2019 novel coronavirus genome towardsdatascience.com Metagenomics — Who is there and what are they doing? Gaining insights into data from microbial communities towardsdatascience.com I hope you found this article interesting. I would love to hear your thoughts. Thank you for reading! Cheers, and stay safe everyone! Note from the editors: Towards Data Science is a Medium publication primarily based on the study of data science and machine learning. We are not health professionals or epidemiologists, and the opinions of this article should not be interpreted as professional advice. To learn more about the coronavirus pandemic, you can click here. References [1] Karlin, S. et al. Compositional biases of bacterial genomes and evolutionary implications. Journal of Bacteriology, 179(12), 3899–3913 (1997). [2] Dick, G. J. et al. Community-wide analysis of microbial genome sequence signatures. Genome Biology, 10(8), R85 (2009). [3] L. Li et al. Severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus genotype and its characterization. Chin Med J (Engl). 116(9):1288–92 (2003). [4] D. Hu et al. Genomic characterization and infectivity of a novel SARS-like coronavirus in Chinese bats. Emerging Microbes & Infections. Vol. 7(1), (2018) [5] F. Wu, S. Zhao, B. Yu et al. A new coronavirus associated with human respiratory disease in China. Nature (2020). Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 3 Data Science Bioinformatics Science Analytics Covid 19 3 claps Written by Vijini Mallawaarachchi Follow PhD Student at Australian National University | Loves Bioinformatics, Data Science, Music & Astronomy Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Write the first response More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
