https://t.co/PS1cN5F2m4
What does “uncertainty” mean? - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute What does “uncertainty” mean? Part 3 of 3 — The differences between risk, uncertainty, and ambiguity Cassie Kozyrkov Follow Mar 19 · 4 min read In my article “What is ambiguity aversion?” I mentioned that there are some nuances about what the word uncertainty means and that it could refer to either risk or ambiguity, depending on which field and decade you grew up in. Image is a meme modified from Hark! A Vagrant by Kate Beaton Things can get pretty academic here, so this article is a footnote for the excessively interested. I guess you arrived on this page because you’re dying to know more, so let me do my best to confuse you further... What is risk? Objective risk In behavioral economics, a decision under objective risk (or just “risk” for short) involves known objective probabilities, e.g. flipping a coin, playing dice/cards. (Not now, epistemologists, be quiet.) Subjective risk A decision under subjective risk involves known subjective probabilities obtained through the decision-maker’s effort to deal with unknown objective probabilities e.g. your favorite horse wins tomorrow’s race (if your horse is in the race at all, that is). In other words, after some effort, the decision-maker feels capable of plugging their opinions/guesses/assumptions in as placeholders for probabilities to make some kind of headway. What is ambiguity? Highly recommended: read the previous two articles [1][2] in the series. A decision under ambiguity involves unknown subjective probabilities that the decision-maker feels powerless to contend with, e.g. any situation where I have no freaking idea and can’t begin to think about what the probabilities might be. In this framing, the difference between subjective risk and ambiguity has to do with the decision-maker’s skills, perceptions, and feelings about whether they’re qualified to make the assumptions required to assign subjective probabilities to parameters of the situation. If you’re familiar with Bayesian terminology, I’ve got some additional notes for your amusement in here. (Text search for “Bayesian” and start reading.) What is uncertainty? It depends on which field and decade you grew up in. Here’s an incomplete list that includes only the fields whose academic papers I read during my own impressionable years (I’m, er, *certain* that the term is also used in a host of other ways by all kinds of fields I know nothing about): In economics of the 1920s, uncertainty meant ambiguity. The word ambiguity wasn’t part of the discussion yet — it became popular in economics after Ellsberg (see previous article). Sometimes today’s nerds refer to ambiguity as “Knightian uncertainty” as a nod to the 1921 paper by Knight that kicked off this whole uncertainty-is-a-thing-economists-should-talk-more-about mess long before Ellsberg was born. In economics of the 2020s, uncertainty tends to mean (subjective) risk (a whole other can of worms — let’s go on a tour of Prospect Theory sometime). In psychology and neuroscience, uncertainty tends to mean the catch-all of both subjective risk and ambiguity, but it is separate from (objective) risk. (Is your head hurting yet?) In statistics and data science, uncertainty ought to mean the catch-all of both risk and ambiguity (i.e. uncertainty would be everything that’s not that other word they like: certainty) but is usually used as though it means risk because most data folk have no training in dealing with this psychology stuff and lack the precise language to differentiate the nuances. In mathematics and computer science, it’s usually the same as in statistics until you get interested in niche stuff like information theory or fuzzy logic, at which point you get to enjoy niche jargon like Shannon uncertainty and Hartley uncertainty, plus a host of partycrashing concepts like vagueness and imprecision. In science, it’s often the same as in statistics, but also depends on what books the impressionable young scientist has been reading. In physics, there’s this thing called the uncertainty principle… nah, I’m not going there. I’ve learned to avoid touching on physics because otherwise I won’t hear the end of it from my family of physics PhDs. Just put it with the other sciences for the purpose of this list. “Physics is the *only* science, Cassie.” “Yeah, whatever, Dad.” In philosophy, the language gets weirder since all of a sudden you have to contend with different species of uncertainty (e.g. ontological, epistemic, aleatory…). If you’re curious to look those up, be warned that it’s a loooong rabbit hole. In management and politics, it means either “I dunno” or “maybe I know, maybe I don’t, now ask me a different question (and who let you in, anyway?)” If you’re getting upset by all this semantic uncertainty (ha! is philosophy joke!), don’t worry about it — understanding the difference between risk and ambiguity is enough for most readers. The articles [1][2] before this one in the series will make the difference intuitive for you. Even if you’re an economist, you probably aren’t especially bothered to sanitize your usage of the term “uncertainty” unless you’re really going granular on your decision theory, in which case you probably already know what the ROCL is (not “rolling on ceiling laughing”, the other one) and should be conducting your discussion in terms of its violations. Casual speakers won’t be fired out of a cannon as punishment for misusing the word uncertainty. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 224 Statistics Data Science Towards Data Science Decision Making Psychology 224 claps Written by Cassie Kozyrkov Follow Head of Decision Intelligence, Google. ?? Stats, ML/AI, data, puns, art, theatre, decision science. All views are my own. twitter.com/quaesita Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (2) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
