https://t.co/r8qO3qfph9
Beginner's Guide – Towards Data Science Homepage Sign inGet started Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute How To Learn Data Science If You’re Broke How To Learn Data Science If You’re Broke Over the last year, I taught myself data science. I learned from hundreds of online resources and studied 6–8 hours every day. All while… Harrison Jansma Sep 15, 2018 12 Things I Learned During My First Year as a Machine Learning Engineer 12 Things I Learned During My First Year as a Machine Learning Engineer Being your own biggest sceptic, the value in trying things which might not work and why communication is harder than technical problems. Daniel Bourke Jul 6, 2019 How to land a Data Scientist job at your dream company - My journey to Airbnb How to land a Data Scientist job at your dream company - My journey to Airbnb The process, tips, and some resources Kelly Peng Jul 6, 2018 Data Science Interview Guide Data Science Interview Guide Data Science is quite a large and diverse field. As a result, it is really difficult to be a jack of all trades. Traditionally, Data… Syed Sadat Nazrul Apr 3, 2018 I wasn’t getting hired as a Data Scientist. So I sought data on who is. I wasn’t getting hired as a Data Scientist. So I sought data on who is. Instead of focusing on skills thought to be required of data scientists, we can look at what they have actually done before Hanif Samad Aug 1, 2019 Why you’re not a job-ready data scientist (yet) Why you’re not a job-ready data scientist (yet) You’re getting rejected for a reason, but it’s almost always something you can fix. Jeremie Harris Jun 16, 2019 Machine Learning Algorithms In Layman’s Terms, Part 1 Machine Learning Algorithms In Layman’s Terms, Part 1 (i.e. how to explain machine learning algorithms to your grandma) Audrey Lorberfeld Mar 1, 2019 Essential Math for Data Science Audio available Essential Math for Data Science The key topics to master to become a better data scientist Tirthajyoti Sarkar Aug 8, 2018 The 5 Clustering Algorithms Data Scientists Need to Know The 5 Clustering Algorithms Data Scientists Need to Know Clustering is a Machine Learning technique that involves the grouping of data points. Given a set of data points, we can use a clustering… George Seif Feb 5, 2018 Top Algorithms and Data Structures You Really Need To Know Top Algorithms and Data Structures You Really Need To Know If you want to become a software engineer, but don’t know where to start, let’s save you the suspense: it’s algorithms and data structures. Jason Roell Dec 20, 2017 What is Decision Intelligence? What is Decision Intelligence? A new discipline for leadership in the AI era Cassie Kozyrkov Aug 2, 2019 Learn Enough Docker to be Useful Learn Enough Docker to be Useful Part 1: The Conceptual Landscape Jeff Hale Jan 9, 2019 About Towards Data ScienceLatest StoriesArchiveAbout MediumTermsPrivacy
