https://towardsdatascience.com/towards-a-data-science-phd-f2b563a8a682?source=user_profile---------4-----------------------
Towards a Data Science PhD - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Towards a Data Science PhD Thinking of higher studies? Here’s some intel! Vijini Mallawaarachchi Follow Mar 18 · 4 min read It has been a little over one and a half years since I started higher studies in Australia. My choice of university was the Australian National University (ANU). At the time of my writing, it is ranked (overall) 50th in the 2020 Times University Ranking. Beyond the mere rank of the university, there were many other considerations during the university selection. Moreover, there are few more things that one might think before, during and after application for a studentship to pursue higher studies. So I decided to share my experiences, as one might someday find this useful. So here’s some heads up. It’s not hard if you give it an honest try! Image by Foundry Co from Pixabay Where to study? This is a critical decision for anyone who would want to study after graduation. Few of my key considerations in selecting the country were; Research and funding: I was interested in Bioinformatics research. Australia seemed to be a country that focuses on genetic research and research in related areas. In almost all the cases, PhD research is funded with cover for tuition fee, living expenses (stipend) and certain allowances of professional development (conference attendance and lab equipment). Living conditions: The stipend can cover all expenses without having to stress about covering work hours to compensate rent and other expenses. Course duration: Usually most Australian PhDs take 3 to 4 years in time. Also, I did not require to undertake an MSc as I did an honours degree with a significant research component. After all, I did not want to hammer myself for 5+ years studying further. Entry requirements: Australia — either IELTS (overall band of 6+ for ANU, Engineering) or TOEFL. The USA and some other destinations — GRE (please read individual university requirements). What are the options for data science PhDs? Data science is a vast field and one of the most trending fields at present. Knowledge from fields such as computer science and statistics are made use of in data science to analyse data and learn interesting things about the data. Therefore, mathematics, statistics and computer science will be core knowledge areas to be discovered in a potential PhD career. Doing a PhD in data science could mean that you’ll be conducting research in areas such as biology, medicine, economics, finance, agriculture and engineering but not limited to these. With the development of methods to generate and store data, all of these fields produce loads and loads of data creating a large number of research opportunities. Despite the specific field, a PhD in data science would involve conducting methodology development based on collected data. However, the final objective of any PhD is to contribute to the knowledge of humanity through innovation methodologies, etc. In gist, it can be concluded that at a higher level of abstraction, any speciality will have a point that involves data-driven innovation. How to find a supervisor? It is always the first step to find a prolific staff member to supervise you. When I was looking for supervisors I looked for Monash University, ANU and the University of Melbourne. It is always easy to find a supervisor if you know, what might be your area of interest (as this is something very hard to define at once). First things first! Visit the university website or rather google “supervisors at Monash/ANU/Unimelb/UNSW/QUT” or any university you might like. You might find the following links useful. University of Melbourne: https://findanexpert.unimelb.edu.au/ ANU: https://researchers.anu.edu.au/ Monash: https://www.monash.edu/research/our-researchers/find UNSW: https://research.unsw.edu.au/finding-supervisor QUT: https://www.qut.edu.au/research/our-experts How to approach a supervisor? This is one of the most difficult and confusing things that you might have to do before you start studies. To make things easier, let’s narrow down this step as follows. The initial point of contact is most of the times (if not always) through an email. Make sure your email makes a good impression! Here’s a sample! Dear Prof. NAME, I am YOUR NAME, from YOUR INSTITUTION. I completed my bachelor’s degree in Computer Science and Engineering last December and I am looking forward for suitable opportunities to follow a PhD. I am interested in doing my higher studies in RESEARCH AREA and I came across your profile as a prolific researcher in the field of RESEARCH AREA. I have read about your research work in the field of RESEARCH AREA. EXTEND THIS EXPRESSING YOUR AREA OF INTEREST BY MENTIONING SOME OF YOUR POTENTIAL SUPERVISORS INTERESTING WORK. I would like to inquire whether you would like to supervise a project on RESEARCH AREA or a related field or have ideas for a project that you would like to have a Ph.D. student working on. ADD A SMALL SENTENCE MENTIONING YOUR FINAL YEAR HONOURS PROJECT, ONE OR TWO KEY PUBLICATIONS, AND YOUR CURRENT STATUS MENTION YOUR ACADEMIC STANDING (GPA/RANK) SO THAT YOU SEEM TO BE COMPETENT AND SOME OF YOUR MAJOR ACHIEVEMENTS My resume and academic transcript are attached for further reference. I appreciate your valuable time. Looking forward to a favorable reply. I have left my links to resume and transcript to make it easy for the reader. However, you might note that my transcript is not complete (not official). Because it doesn’t have to be. As long as you can expose an original copy in a later date you are okay to show your current status as it is. The resume should be in academic style and make sure it is plain and easy to read for a busy person. Make everything SHORT but SWEET! I thought of sharing this information as it is confusing at the beginning. If you aren’t into Aussie studies, skip this. All the best! Share with your friends. Cheers! Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 8 Data Science Computer Science Education Higher Education PhD 8 claps Written by Vijini Mallawaarachchi Follow PhD Student at Australian National University | Loves Bioinformatics, Data Science, Music & Astronomy Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Write the first response More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
