https://towardsdatascience.com/anomaly-detection-time-series-4c661f6f165f?source=user_profile---------3-----------------------
Anomaly detection in time series with Prophet library Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Anomaly detection in time series with Prophet library Insaf Ashrapov Follow Jun 4, 2019 · 3 min read First of all, let’s define what is an anomaly in time series. Anomaly detection problem for time series can be formulated as finding outlier data points relative to some standard or usual signal. While there are plenty of anomaly types, we’ll focus only on the most important ones from a business perspective, such as unexpected spikes, drops, trend changes and level shifts. You can solve this problem in two way: supervised and unsupervised. While the first approach needs some labeled data, second does not, you need the just raw data. On that article, we will focus on the second approach. Generally, unsupervised anomaly detection method works this way: you build some generalized simplified version of your data — everything which is outside some boundary by the threshold of this model is called outlier or anomaly. So first all of we will need to fit our data into some model, which hopefully will well describe our data. Here comes prophet library. For sure you can try more or less powerful/complicated models such arima, regression trees, rnn/lstm or even moving averages and etc — but almost all of them need to be tuned, unlikely that will work out of the box. Prophet is not like that, it is like auto arima but much, much better. It is really powerful and easy to start using the library which is focused on forecasting time series. It developed by Facebook’s Core Data Science team. You can read more about the library here. To install Prophet library can be installed through the pypi: pip install fbprophet We will be working with some sample data, which has some interesting outliers. You download data here and it looks this way: Some random timeseries To train the model we will define basic hyperparameters some interval_width and changepoint_range. They can be used to adjust the width of the boundary: Fitting prophet model Then we set as outliers everything higher than the top and lower the bottom of the model boundary. In addition, the set the importance of outlier as based on how far the dot from the boundary: Then you are ready get the plot. I recomend to try altair library, you can easily get interactive plot just by setting adding .interactive to your code. Finally we get the result. They seems to be very reasonable: Github repository with code and data Kaggle code with data by Vinay Jaju Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 1.3K Data Science Visualization Python Anomaly Detection Time Series Analysis 1.3K claps Written by Insaf Ashrapov Follow Senior Data scientist at Sberbank Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (6) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
