https://towardsdatascience.com/new-years-resolutions-for-data-scientists-43a0d3d8b4ff?source=user_profile---------3-----------------------
New Year’s Resolutions for Data Scientists - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute New Year’s Resolutions for Data Scientists Your guide to a fresh decade of better projects and cleaner code Lora Johns Follow Dec 31, 2019 · 4 min read Today’s the traditional day to reflect on the past 364 and make declarations of self-betterment. It’s been an eventful year. Models like BERT have rocked the traditional field; Kubernetes and Docker have joined forces; companies have come under fire for using prejudicial algorithms to make business decisions; controversy has roiled data science boot camps; job descriptions demand an ever-expanding set of disjoint skills. It’s clearer than ever that ours is a multifaceted industry where it’s challenging to stay on your feet and relevant. Here are 10 suggestions each to help you level up as a data scientist and programmer, with useful resources, and 6 to help you stay sane in the process: General programming Photo by Denis Pavlovic on Unsplash I will get (my python path) in shape. I will clean up the environment (and not pip install every package to the same one). I will learn a new language. I will give up pickle for a better kind of data serialization. I will set healthy boundaries (with containerization). I will write clean, elegant code. I will learn enough C to fix Python when it breaks (or at least understand why it did). I will actually learn how to git responsibly. I will learn bash to become a command-line wizard. I will expand my research toolbox for better debugging. Data science, machine learning, and AI Photo by h heyerlein on Unsplash I will pay attention to bias in machine learning and strive to eliminate it from my data. I will ask why things work, not just that they do. I will critically evaluate pre-trained models rather than naïvely use them. If I’m more practically inclined, I will learn something theoretical — like the math underlying my models. If I’m more academic — I will make something hands-on, and not let perfectionism stop me from rolling out a product. I will join a data science-oriented Slack, Discord, or IRC channel to meet new colleagues. I will attend meet-ups or conferences (or at least watch the videos online) to grow my skills. I will visualize my models or deploy them to a web app so more people can use and understand them. I will cross-train my brain and improve my domain knowledge. (For NLP engineers, I recommend studying linguistics.) I will do one project in an area that’s not my forte — using unstructured data if I usually work with numbers, or trying computer vision if I usually work with words. (Maybe even making some art!) I will follow some awesome ML/AI practitioners on social media. The universal recommendations Photo by Lindsay Henwood on Unsplash No matter what you want to get better at this year, here are some essential resolutions to lay the groundwork for your success: I will prioritize sleeping at least 8 hours a night, because sleep is essential to learning. I will dedicate time every day to moving my body and eating nourishing food, because my wellness is paramount to success. I will find stress management techniques that work for me, because my mental health is just as important as my physical health and my work ethic. I will take time to do things that I enjoy apart from working and studying, because being a happy, well-rounded person isn’t just good for productivity — it’s the point of living. I will remember that my worth as a person isn’t tied to my job search, my Kaggle score, or any other external metric of success. It’s easy in this industry to get burned out and discouraged. I will honor my pace and my progress. If I’m feeling depressed, anxious, or isolated, I will reach out to my friends and colleagues. We’re all in this together. Hindsight is 2020. Learn from your mistakes, identify where you need reinforcement, and make a plan to improve this year. But try to enjoy the process. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 488 Data Science Machine Learning Programming Artificial Intelligence Software Engineering 488 claps Written by Lora Johns Follow Machine learning, linguistics, NLP | { B.A. : Dartmouth, J.D. : Yale, M.S. : Simmons } Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (1) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
