https://towardsdatascience.com/advanced-google-skills-for-data-science-350bf828dbe6?source=user_profile---------4-----------------------
Advanced Google Skills for Data Science - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Advanced Google Skills for Data Science Optimize your programming by searching like a professional Lora Johns Follow Dec 28, 2019 · 5 min read Photo by Clay Banks on Unsplash The problem with “Just Google it” “LMGTFY” is a long-running joke website. “RTFM” is a disdainful sneer. (Ouais, aussi en français.) But if finding answers were as easy as typing a natural-language query into a search engine and reading a manual page, there’d be no such thing as graduate degrees in library science and I’d be out of a job. LMGTFY: Answering open-ended questions is not a trivial task. Apart from being an unsolved, NLP-hard machine-learning question, finding the answers to “why isn’t my code compiling?” or “what’s wrong with my model?” are questions that you — with your non-artificial intelligence — need to handle efficiently in your daily life to be an effective data scientist and programmer. Here, I’ll share some power tools from the information professional’s toolbox that you can use to debug your code and learn relevant information faster. Google with purpose It’s not just a natural-language question box, although no one denies that autocompletion is the best and highest form of AI entertainment. Who hurt you? If you aren’t using advanced Google search features, you’re missing out on the full power of its capabilities. Among those features: Excluding terms with the minus sign: compare the top videos for the searches python vs python -programming: python python -programming Including terms with double quotes: If a term must appear, even if it’s rare and PageRank doesn’t think much of it, then you can enclose it in quotation marks. python x86–64 assembly “fail” will make sure you get results where the compiler “failed”. Likewise, use those double quotes to search for exact string matches. Debug your code problems by copying and pasting stderr into a pair of double quotation marks in a search engine. Bootstrap Google to compensate for another site’s poor search function. Passing site:www.example.com as part of your query restricts your search to just that domain. using Google as a single-site search engine If, unlike me, you prefer the GUI to the syntax, bookmark the advanced search page. It has fields to translate these options and more. Be a Github and StackExchange Ninja In addition to site:github.com on Google, Github’s UI and API both offer advanced search capabilities, which generally accord with the syntax we’ve just covered. Bookmark the advanced search page. github advanced search StackExchange has myriad syntax options for the advanced intrepid researcher. A fantastic feature is the ability to use any of the search options on subject tags, denoted with [brackets], to include or exclude things (e.g., concurrency *ython -[java] == “I want to see answers about concurrency in Cython and Python, but not Java.”). StackExchange also has an API that supports advanced search (although GitHub’s API works with the much cooler GraphQL). Be your own NLP model + Reference Librarian The ability to program is powerful — you create things that can create other things. The ability to do tactical research is a superpower — you learn faster, solve problems efficiently, and leverage your meta-skills in the process. So what makes for a “good search”? Strip out the junk. Think stop words and TF-IDF. (Refresher: TF-IDF’s basic idea is that a word is more meaningful if it’s more frequent in your corpus, but not if it’s so frequent that it shows up everywhere regardless of context.) Get specific. It might take a few tries to calibrate the level of query specificity to target relevant answers, but it lies somewhere between “python module not working” and copy-pasting a traceback with your idiosyncratic username, file path, and function names in it. Try dialing the specificity up and down to see what happens to your hits. Try different words. Is the term you’re including likely to produce unique results, or at least a net information gain over some more generic word? If not, can you paraphrase your question in a few different ways, to see if other people have tried those phrasings? Sometimes, it’s third or fourth rephrasing of a question that strikes gold on the umpteenth page of StackExchange search results. If you’re stumped for ideas, try textblob, which lets you quickly brainstorm synonyms, meroynms, holonyms, definitions, example sentences, and additional senses of words to enrich and rephrase your queries. While you may prefer this Python gist to the analog way of brainstorming terms, I’ll encourage you to stretch your mental muscles and try anyway. The plasticity of thinking that you gain from learning to see multiple facets of a question is a skill that will help you be a better programmer. Keep a research trail Don’t lose the progress you’ve made once you’ve found the hard-won answers. Document them. Comment your code. Do you know how many times I’ve forgotten the answer to an elaborate research trail and thanked Past Me for putting the link in a block comment? Use version control, while we’re on the subject. There’s no reason your research notes can’t be a local git repo. Once you’ve solved a big problem, if it breaks and you need to fix it again, you’ll be very happy you have the trail. Get into the habit of writing (or bookmarking) to file, adding, and committing. A traceable research trail is almost self-documentation and definitely saves you hours of retracing your steps. Leverage your browser history. Use a Google Chrome/Gmail account specifically for development to track your browsing history, if you use Chrome. Use Vivaldi (my favorite browser), a Chromium-based browser that lets you create multiple browsing profiles and tab/bookmark groups (e.g., one for development, one for ML, one for front-end, one for leisure time…) Keep research documentation. Store bookmarks in Zotero, an open-source, cross-platform, multimedia-capable citation and research manager. Or, if you love the command line, too, try papis. I mostly use a CLI that I rolled myself with a bunch of plain .txt files and a sqlite backend to manage them. But Zotero is my open-source favorite for sharing and collaborating with other people. Papis is feature-rich, and I’ve been eyeing Notion as a Markdown-friendly, integrated, and anti-distraction alternative to Jira-type services. Welcome to Information Science! (Re)Search is a science and and art — there is a reason I have a master’s degree in it and train models to try to understand how to be good at it. It’s hard — even for smart humans. “Just Google it” is terrible advice. Take this instead. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 244 Machine Learning Data Science Programming Python Software Development 244 claps Written by Lora Johns Follow Machine learning, linguistics, NLP | { B.A. : Dartmouth, J.D. : Yale, M.S. : Simmons } Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow See responses (2) More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
