https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-use-regex-7aeaf4dd25e9?source=user_profile---------7-----------------------
Level up your regex skills - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Level up your regex skills Regular expressions for fun and profit Lora Johns Follow Sep 10, 2019 · 3 min read Regular expressions have a bad reputation. They’re hard, they’re opaque, they break things. They even broke Stack Overflow. Relying on built-in modules for string matching is fine for some tasks, but you’ll miss out on the power and flexibility that comes from writing your own regex. (If you’re really dedicated, you can even make them do arithmetic.) This post will show you some use cases for regex you might not have tried before and give you resources to make learning them — dare I say — fun. Make your f-strings more versatile Python’s f-strings are fantastic — they’re readable, concise, and less error-prone than the older %-formatting method. You can get even more out of them with regex. Prefix you expression with r for “raw”, which tells Python to ignore all the escape characters. But beware, even a raw string can’t consist entirely of a single backslash. Combine r with the f prefix when you need to swap parts of your regex. You can use this to write shorter loops or hold a place for a value you don’t have yet or need to compile. (Here’s an example of the latter case.) Use re.compile to pre-compile a regular expression object. Find and replace text with precision Regex give you a parsimonious way to alter the content of strings. In one line, you can target the items to replace and alter them using capturing groups. Here, I’ve used this technique to scan sentences from news articles and make hashtags from the word “alien”. Use a numbered reference to the capturing group enclosed in parentheses. The second expression replaces the targeted substring in the call to re.sub. Get valuable information from noisy data I use regex in my everyday life to simplify other tasks (yes, really). For example, I wanted a list of packages from a requirements.txt file, but didn’t want their specific versions. Not pleasant. Regex prevented the tedium of having to extract the package names manually. You can see how I did it at Regex101. I like using BBEdit (formerly TextWrangler) for this, but you can also use the “export matches” feature in Regex101. The website gives you the added benefit of debugging your expression in real time. The time spent learning regex pays for itself several times over by saving you from tedious searching. I’ve used regex for extracting regular expressions from other Python scripts and grepping for files on the command line. Train your brain and enjoy the challenge In applying regex, you’ll improve your computational thinking skills by decomposing a search problem, abstracting patterns, and applying them algorithmically. I’m fun at parties. But the best reason to use regex might be that they’re just fun. If you’re the kind of person who enjoys puzzles, you’ll get hooked on finding different ways to solve the same problem and resolving edge cases. While it’s true that regular expressions can be hard and sometimes dangerous, most of the best things in life are. Do a few crosswords, play a little regex golf, and see if you don’t agree. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 287 Regex Python Programming 287 claps Written by Lora Johns Follow Machine learning, linguistics, NLP | { B.A. : Dartmouth, J.D. : Yale, M.S. : Simmons } Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Write the first response More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
