http://www.simoninithomas.com/unitymlagentscourse/
Unity ML-Agents Course Unity ML-Agents Course ?? Start learning now How to help? Keep in touch About me Learn to create AI in Unity ML using Deep Reinforcement Learning. Some of the agents you'll train during this course: This course is a series of articles where you'll learn to implement reinforcement learning agents on Unity. You'll build a strong professional portfolio by implementing awesome agents with Tensorflow that learn to play video games! This course is made by the Deep Reinforcement Learning Course Team Start learning now See the Github repo Chapter 1: An Introduction to Unity ML-Agents ? Course: Read the article ??? Train an agent that will learn to jump over walls. ??? Saved Models ? Video: ? More resources: Getting Started with the 3D Balance Ball Environment Chapter 2: Curious Agents ? Course: Read the article ??? Train an agent that needs to press a button to spawn a pyramid, then navigate to the pyramid, knock it over, and move to the gold brick at the top. ??? Saved Models ? Video: Chapter 3: The Mayan Adventure ? Course: Read the article ??? you'll learn about curriculum learning, and you'll train our agent to attain the golden statue and beat the game. ??? The environment and the saved models ? Video: Syllabus (Work In Progress ??) Chapter 3: Let's create our own environment Chapter 4: Developing our own agent from scratch Chapter 5: Constrained RL with Unity ML-Agents Chapter 6: The tower challenge Chapter 7: Multi agents Chapter 8: Curriculum learning How to help? 3 ways: ? and ? Clap our articles and like our videos a lot Clapping in Medium means that you really like our articles. And the more claps we have, the more our article is shared Liking our videos help them to be much more visible to the deep learning community Share and speak about our articles and videos By sharing our articles and videos you help us to spread the word. ??? Publish your own implementations. Show us what you've learned! Keep in touch! About Contact Terms and conditions Follow me on 2020, SIMONINI Thomas
