https://simoninithomas.github.io/Deep_reinforcement_learning_Course/
Deep Reinforcement Learning Course Deep Reinforcement Learning Course ?? Start learning now How to help? Keep in touch About me A Free course in Deep Reinforcement Learning from beginner to expert. Some of the agents you'll implement during this course: This course is a series of articles and videos where you'll master the skills and architectures you need, to become a deep reinforcement learning expert. You'll build a strong professional portfolio by implementing awesome agents with Tensorflow that learns to play Space invaders, Doom, Sonic the hedgehog and more! Start learning now See the Github repo 54,597 Readers 4,000 Reads/week 33,498 Claps 3,598 Fans 737 19,904 Views Step 1: What is Deep Reinforcement Learning? Read the article You'll learn all the essentials concepts you need to master before diving on the Deep Reinforcement Learning algorithms. What’s Deep Reinforcement Learning and what is its process? Why rewards is the central idea in RL? What’s the 3 approaches of Reinforcement Learning? ? More ressources: Free book: Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction, Richard S. Sutton and Andrew G. Barto, Chapter 1: Introduction Step 2: Q-Learning ? Course: You'll learn the Q-learning algorithm and how to implement it with Numpy. Read the article ??? Create an Agent that learns to play FrozenLake ??? Implementation ? Video: You'll learn how to implement the Q-learning algorithm with Numpy. ??? Create an Agent that learns to play Taxi-v2 ??? Implementation ? More resources: Free book: Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction, Richard S. Sutton and Andrew G. Barto, Chapter 6 (Part 6.5) Q learning explained by Siraj Raval Step 3: Deep Q-Learning ? Course: You'll learn the Deep Q Learning algorithm and how to implement it with Tensorflow. Read the article ??? An Agent that plays Doom and kill enemies ??? Implementation ? Video: ??? Create an Agent that learns to play Atari Space Invaders ??? Implementation ? More resources: Deep Q Learning for Video Games by Siraj Raval Step 3+: Improvements in Deep Q Learning ? Course: You'll learn the latests improvments in Deep Q Learning (Dueling Double DQN, Prioritized Experience Replay and fixed q-targets) and how to implement them with Tensorflow. Read the article ??? Implementation ? Video: You'll learn the latests improvements in Deep Q Learning (Dueling Double DQN, Prioritized Experience Replay and fixed q-targets) and how to implement them with Tensorflow. ??? Create an Agent that learns to play Doom Deadly corridor Part 4: Policy Gradients ? Course: In this article you'll learn about Policy gradients and how to implement it with Tensorflow. Read the article ??? An Agent that learns to survive in an hostile environment in Doom ??? Implementation ? Video: ??? Create an Agent that learns to play Doom deathmatch Part 5: Advantage Actor Critic (A2C) and Asynchronous Advantage Actor Critic (A3C) ? Course: You'll learn the Actor Critic's logic and how to implement an A2C agent that plays Sonic the Hedgehog with Tensorflow. Read the article ??? Implementation ? Video: ??? Create an Agent that learns to play Sonic the Hedgehog ? More resources: Free book: Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction, Richard S. Sutton and Andrew G. Barto, Chapter 13: Policy Gradient Methods Part 6: Proximal Policy Gradients in A2C style ? Course: You'll learn PPO how to implement it with Tensorflow. Read the article ??? Implementation Part 7: Curiosity Driven Learning ? September TBA How to help? 3 ways: ? and ? Clap our articles and like our videos a lot Clapping in Medium means that you really like our articles. And the more claps we have, the more our article is shared Liking our videos help them to be much more visible to the deep learning community Share and speak about our articles and videos By sharing our articles and videos you help us to spread the word. ??? Publish your own implementations. Show us what you've learned! Keep in touch! About Contact Terms and conditions Follow me on 2018, SIMONINI Thomas
