https://github.com/simoninithomas/the_mayan_adventure
GitHub - simoninithomas/the_mayan_adventure: The Mayan Adventure is an open-source reinforcement learning environment for Unity ML-Agents.  In this environment, you train your agent (Indie) to find the golden statue in this dangerous environment full of traps. Skip to content Why GitHub? Features ? Code review Project management Integrations Actions Packages Security Team management Hosting Customer stories ? Security ? Enterprise Explore Explore GitHub ? Learn & contribute Topics Collections Trending Learning Lab Open source guides Connect with others Events Community forum GitHub Education Marketplace Pricing Plans ? Compare plans Contact Sales Nonprofit ? Education ? In this repository All GitHub ? Jump to ? No suggested jump to results In this repository All GitHub ? Jump to ? In this repository All GitHub ? Jump to ? Sign in Sign up simoninithomas / the_mayan_adventure Watch 1 Star 13 Fork 3 Code Issues 0 Pull requests 0 Actions Projects 0 Security Insights Dismiss Join GitHub today GitHub is home to over 40 million developers working together to host and review code, manage projects, and build software together. Sign up The Mayan Adventure is an open-source reinforcement learning environment for Unity ML-Agents. In this environment, you train your agent (Indie) to find the golden statue in this dangerous environment full of traps. reinforcement-learning deep-reinforcement-learning ml-agents unity unity3d 8 commits 1 branch 0 packages 0 releases 1 contributor MIT ShaderLab C# HLSL ShaderLab 63.4% C# 29.1% HLSL 7.5% Branch: master New pull request Find file Clone or download Clone with HTTPS Use Git or checkout with SVN using the web URL. Open in Desktop Download ZIP Downloading Want to be notified of new releases in simoninithomas/the_mayan_adventure? Sign in Sign up Launching GitHub Desktop If nothing happens, download GitHub Desktop and try again. Go back Launching GitHub Desktop If nothing happens, download GitHub Desktop and try again. Go back Launching Xcode If nothing happens, download Xcode and try again. Go back Launching Visual Studio If nothing happens, download the GitHub extension for Visual Studio and try again. Go back Latest commit simoninithomas Update README.md Latest commit 667a9cb Mar 25, 2020 Files Permalink Type Name Latest commit message Commit time Failed to load latest commit information. The Mayan Adventure Unity Project Added the Mayan Adventure Beta version Mar 25, 2020 assets/images Added some visual elements Mar 25, 2020 .gitignore LICENSE README.md Update README.md Mar 25, 2020 README.md The Mayan Adventure The Mayan Adventure is an open-source reinforcement learning environment for Unity ML-Agents. In this environment, you train your agent (Indie) to find the golden statue in this dangerous environment full of traps. You can see the trained agent result here: Link to the video This environment is part of Unity ML Agents Course. A free course where you learn to create agents in Unity ML using Deep Reinforcement Learning with Tensorflow. This project is currently in beta. You can check the todo section to see what will be the future improvements. Have fun! Companion article We wrote a companion article to explain how the environment works and how you can train the agent. The Article : https://towardsdatascience.com/unity-ml-agents-the-mayan-adventure-2e15510d653b Documentation Setup You need to have Unity and MLAgents installed, if it’s not the case check Unity ML Installation documentation. To install The Mayan Adventure, you just need to clone this repository and in Unity Hub, add the Folder Mayan Adventure. Train and Replay Please check the article The Article: [Sent to publication] Todo section As said, this is the beta version, there are still a lot of things to improve: Adding randomness in the generation of the level. Adding visual version of the training agent. Fire Level: turn on/off every 3 seconds. New levels: Jump Level Rolling Ball Level License Some assets of the Mayan Adventure where taken from assets packs: 3D Game Kit: A fantastic environment created by Unity, I use their rock platforms, buttons, pillars. Unity Particle Pack: I used it for the fire system. Creator kit: puzzle: For the win particle fireworks. Skybox series free The other elements, wood bridge, and animation, rock heads, golden statue, fedora, etc were made with Blender. © 2020 GitHub, Inc. Terms Privacy Security Status Help Contact GitHub Pricing API Training Blog About You can’t perform that action at this time. You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
