https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8ct%3Dlo_homepage&source=landing_home---------------------------
?Medium on the App Store Global Nav Open Menu Global Nav Close Menu Apple Shopping Bag + Search apple.com Cancel Apple Mac iPad iPhone Watch TV Music Support Shopping Bag + Cancel App Store Preview This app is available only on the App Store for iPhone and iPad. Medium 12+ Smart stories & ideas. No ads. A Medium Corporation #56 in News 4.8, 60.1K Ratings Free Offers In-App Purchases Screenshots iPhone iPad Description Medium is made for you: people who are genuinely curious about the world and your part in it. From opinion pieces to interviews to in-depth reportage, photography, and features, Medium stories take many shapes, but always leave you with greater insight into the world. Our app features a clean reading experience designed to let you focus on the story (without an ad in sight) wherever you are, from your commute to your couch. You can read a select number of stories for members each month for free — or subscribe for $5/month for unlimited access. HOMEPAGE: The sheer volume of information on the internet can get to be too much. So in our app, we curate stories based on your personal interests and our editors’ picks of the best of the day. COLLECTIONS: Our editors package the best stories on Medium into multi-part collections that you can binge-read or savor over time. You can explore expert columns, multi-author anthologies, comprehensive explainers, and our monthly magazine. READING: Our app is designed to let you focus on the words. Bookmark stories to your reading list. Join the conversation by writing a response. Clap for stories to show writers your appreciation. If there’s a particular passage that intrigues you, highlight it for posterity. MEMBERSHIP: With a free Medium account, you get access to all these features — including all free stories on Medium — plus a select number of stories for members per month (the ones with a star next to them). If you upgrade to become a Medium member, you’ll get unlimited access to everything Medium has to offer: the smartest and most ambitious stories from the sharpest writers on Medium, audio versions of popular stories, and more. All for $5/month or $50/year. WRITING: For writers, we know inspiration knows no bounds — you can compose a new story on the go and then switch easily to your tablet or computer without a hiccup. Your Medium membership will automatically renew each month, and you will be charged $4.99 through your iTunes account within 24-hours prior to the end of the current monthly cycle. You can turn off auto-renew at any time from your iTunes account settings up until 24-hours before the end of the current period, but refunds will not be provided for any unused portion of the term. Please visit our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service for more information: Privacy Policy: https://me.dm/privacy Terms of Service: https://me.dm/subscription-terms Questions? Feedback? To get help, visit https://help.medium.com What’s New Version History Mar 25, 2020 Version 3.117 This version includes bugs fixes and performance improvements. We’d like to invite you to help shape the future of the app by providing valuable feedback. Come join our Medium mobile app community here https://www.reddit.com/r/MediumApp/. Ratings and Reviews See All 4.8 out of 5 60.1K Ratings 60.1K Ratings Abe Rad , 03/05/2018 The app asked for a review so here it is: First off I love what Medium is doing here. From a consumer of interesting writing, this is exactly what I want; no ads and very often articles that are interesting to me. The articles surfaced are improving as I use the service which is a good sign that what these people are doing with my usage is working. The app on the other hand has some nagging issues for those who use an iPad in landscape or simply prefer landscape mode regardless of device. This app is clearly designed to be used in portrait mode... yes it works in landscape but the layout doesn't really fit the screen most of the time, and has huge white margins on both sides. It's as if the designers decided rather than reflow the text, we'll just keep the same text width and add huge margins on the sides. Large pictures that are embedded within articles tend to be cut off when in landscape, but are sized nicely to fit within the screen in portrait. Even worse, as of the last update the app shows a blank white screen when switching from portrait to landscape. I know that this may come off as a bit of a quibble, and it is, but a large iPad Pro just isn't very comfortable in portrait, and anything with videos really should be in landscape anyway. Besides, the app did pester me for a review, so here you go... All in all, a great service and an app that is more than usable, just not 5 starts great... yet. Cinimon , 05/29/2018 History is necessary for accidental page close outs. I must admit having been a medium member for the past few years I can tell you I’m never let down by quality. Writers on this app have their own unique way of connecting their audience. I can only hope that this corporation continues it’s journey of innovation for future of us writers. One area in particular I would like Medium to consider looking into is allowing users to be able to have a history log of what they just read. I was reading a story this morning and accidentally backed out the article. I spent a good 25 minutes looking for it. Luckily I enjoyed the article so much I was able to remember the writer of the article and search him that way. Yes! I booked marked him. *So for those of you enjoying a read...”STOP” and bookmark it. I just recently purchased an iPad so still adjusting. Thank you again for the quality of reading material you allow the world to enjoy and here is too many more decades of advancement. Not only have you impacted my life personally, it’s allowed me to grow through others experiences. You can learn a lot of valuable life lessons on Medium. South_FL , 06/19/2018 Incredible. Worth Subscribing. To begin, the quality of writing is incredible. It’s introspective, but not pretentious or exhausting. There’s a journalistic standard preserved within this space that seems to be disintegrating across the board into an infinite heap of clickbait and sensationalism. In this context, I applaud the minimalism behind the apps design and philosophy as well as the unadulterated opinion pieces of the writers (who come from all spaces). Furthermore, they provide interesting and alternative points of view on some of the most pressing matters facing us today. I don’t regret my subscription. Medium is a welcomed break from the onslaught of hysteria one may witness on Twitter or Facebook, or any other sites that dole out “news” to their users which often times leaves them feeling numb, angry and distracted. Conversely, after spending time on Medium, one comes away feeling enlightened and optimistic more often than not. In conclusion, $4.99 is a small price to pay for everything that you get in return as a reader. I highly recommend it. Information Seller A Medium Corporation Size 66.8 MB Category News Compatibility Requires iOS 11.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch. Languages English, Catalan, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, Turkish Age Rating 12+ Infrequent/Mild Realistic Violence Infrequent/Mild Mature/Suggestive Themes Infrequent/Mild Profanity or Crude Humor Infrequent/Mild Horror/Fear Themes Infrequent/Mild Cartoon or Fantasy Violence Infrequent/Mild Medical/Treatment Information Infrequent/Mild Sexual Content and Nudity Infrequent/Mild Alcohol, Tobacco, or Drug Use or References Copyright © 2019 A Medium Corporation Price Free In-App Purchases Medium Membership $4.99 Medium Membership $49.99 Monthly Membership + Trial $4.99 more Developer Website App Support Privacy Policy Developer Website App Support Privacy Policy Supports Family Sharing With Family Sharing set up, up to six family members can use this app. You May Also Like See All Bloomberg: Business News News Pocket: Save. Read. Grow. News Flipboard - Latest Stories News The Wall Street Journal. News Feedly - Smart News Reader News The Guardian: Breaking News News More ways to shop: Find an Apple Store or other retailer near you. Or call 1-800-MY-APPLE. Choose your country or region Copyright © 2020 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Legal Site Map
