https://towardsdatascience.com/coronavirus-the-data-behind-the-disease-68c912f1a5e0?source=collection_category---4------2-----------------------
Coronavirus: the data behind the disease - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute APPLE | GOOGLE | SPOTIFY | OTHERS | CLIP Coronavirus: the data behind the disease Jeremy Howard on the TDS podcast Jeremie Harris Follow Mar 20 · 3 min read Editor’s note: The Towards Data Science podcast’s “Climbing the Data Science Ladder” series is hosted by Jeremie Harris. Jeremie helps run a data science mentorship startup called SharpestMinds. You can listen to the podcast below: In mid-January, China launched an official investigation into a string of unusual pneumonia cases in Hubei province. Within two months, that cluster of cases would snowball into a full-blown pandemic, with hundreds of thousands — perhaps even millions — of infections worldwide, with the potential to unleash a wave of economic damage not seen since the 1918 Spanish influenza or the Great Depression. The exponential growth that led us from a few isolated infections to where we are today is profoundly counterintuitive. And it poses many challenges for the epidemiologists who need to pin down the transmission characteristics of the coronavirus, and for the policy makers who must act on their recommendations, and convince a generally complacent public to implement life-saving social distancing measures. With the coronas in full bloom, I thought now would be a great time to reach out to Jeremy Howard, co-founder of the incredibly popular Fast.ai machine learning education site. Along with his co-founder Rachel Thomas, Jeremy authored a now-viral report outlining a data-driven case for concern regarding the coronavirus. We covered a lot of ground during our chat, and here were some of the key take-homes: The exponential growth of COVID-19 cases has many counterintuitive consequences, one of which is that it becomes difficult to estimate reliable death rates. Many naive estimates either over-estimate death rates by under-estimating the number of true cases (including asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic carriers) or under-estimate death rates by failing to account for the delay between infection detection and onset of life-threatening symptoms. At the end of the day, the only way to get reasonable estimates is to rely on techniques like survival analysis, which have been designed to operate with censored data (where outcomes of ongoing cases aren’t yet known). Bayesian modelling is incredibly important when dealing with problems that get out of hand exponentially: under-estimating a viral growth coefficient by 10% can mean a difference of millions upon millions of infections, creating a very long tail of possible case numbers that has serious implications for the healthcare system’s ability to avoid collapse. In times such as these, there’s a premium on clear communication from academics and governments. This means that good data visualization and clear descriptions of statistical effects are extremely important to ensure that populations aren’t misled about the nature of the threat they face. Jeremy points out an important example of this issue in the form of a recent study that shows significant seasonality to the spread of coronavirus, but that made use of poor data visualization to get its point across, resulting in undeserved skepticism. You can follow Jeremy on Twitter here, and you can follow me on Twitter here. Clip YouTube.com We are looking for guests who have something valuable to share with our audience. If you happen to know someone who would be a good fit, please let us know here: publication@towardsdatascience.com. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 69 Data Science Data Visualization Covid 19 Towards Data Science Tds Podcast 69 claps Written by Jeremie Harris Follow Co-founder of SharpestMinds (mentorship from senior data scientists that’s free until you get a job) | Quantum mechanics | AI | Philosophy | Short bios. Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Write the first response More From Medium More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science from sklearn import * Conor Lazarou in Towards Data Science Mar 22 · 9 min read 2.5K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Top 3 Python Functions You Don’t Know About (Probably) Dario Rade?i? in Towards Data Science Mar 14 · 4 min read 4.3K More from Towards Data Science More from Towards Data Science Don’t learn machine learning Caleb Kaiser in Towards Data Science Mar 19 · 4 min read 2.4K Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
