https://towardsdatascience.com/a-short-review-of-covid-19-data-sources-ba7f7aa1c342?source=collection_category---4------0-----------------------
A Short Review of COVID-19 Data Sources - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Anyone can publish on Medium per our Policies, but we don’t fact-check every story. For more info about the coronavirus, see cdc.gov. A Short Review of COVID-19 Data Sources The pros and cons of some popular COVID-19 data sources Jian Xu Follow Mar 27 · 4 min read As a data scientist, I am always on the look for “the best” data source to analyze the coronavirus pandemic. Unfortunately, there are so many different sources around, and each of them is a little different. Here’s a short review as of Mar 26, 2020. I will cover the strength and weakness of the following data sources so that you can choose the one that best fits your need: 1 Point 3 Acres John Hopkins CSSE The COVID Tracking Project The Kaggle Novel Coronavirus Dataset Ding Xiang Yuan 1 Point 3 Acres: If you are looking for the US COVID-19 data, and you don’t need an API, then look no further. This is the best website to go to. Strengths: Has county-level details about the confirm and death counts. This is the only data source I found containing this information. Integrated information from many other sources. For example, testing data (from https://covidtracking.com/), news from various sources, related videos from YouTube, etc. Very reliable and high-quality data, even the US’s CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) uses its data daily. Very nice visualization. Easy for readers to select the state in his/her interest. Comparison to other countries is also effortless. And the “racing” bar charts (using Flourish as backend) are also very informative, and rarely seen in other websites. Weaknesses: No public API. If you want to use their data programmatically, then you need to contact them. Focus on the US and Canada. If your main interest is somewhere else, then this is not the source for you. John Hopkins CSSE (Center for System Science and Engineering) If you are looking for global data, this is the data source to go to. It has been widely cited since the early days of the coronavirus epidemic. Strengths: Covers data covers from all over the world. Data are publicly available in GitHub. So you can easily play with it on your own. In fact, most other data sources are built upon this data set. For example, you can get the daily report CSV on 3/25/2020 by: Weaknesses: The US data don’t have county information, only break down to the states. The dashboard GUI is less informative than 1Point3Acres. Other than the map, you can only see the time series plot of the confirmed cases and daily increase cases. You cannot compare different regions, cannot see the plot in log scale, etc. The COVID Tracking Project If you need the COVID-19 testing data in the US, and you don’t need county-level details, this is the data source to go to. This is a unique data source because it contains the US’s test data, ie, positive and negative results, pending tests, and total people tested. This information is very valuable because it reveals a lot of information about the “actual” number of patients that has not yet been “confirmed”. This testing data is also used by 1Point3Acres on their website. Strengths: Contains testing data API (CSV and JSON) publicly available, and very easy to use. For example, you can get daily JSON and CSV by the following: Weaknesses: No county-level data No global data The Kaggle Novel Coronavirus Dataset If you want to build statistics on medical details, this is the preferred data source. Strengths: Use John Hopkins CSSE data as the main underlying data source Has medical details for a few thousand cases, such as symptoms, travel history, chronic disease, etc. And it’s available in a Google spreadsheet format. Weakness: Basically the same as the John Hopkins data. No county data, no testing data. Ding Xiang Yuan (???) If you are looking for the best data for China, this is the data source to go to. This is the earliest data source available to the public. It has been widely used since the coronavirus breakout in January 2020. Strengths: Contains the earliest and the most detailed data in China Weaknesses: No public API. However, you can find web crawlers in GitHub which obtains data from Ding Xiang Yuan. For example, Isaac Lin’s COVID-19 Time Series Data Warehouse. This is also the data source I used when I analyze the Chinese outbreak data for my own GitHub project in this Medium post. Visualizations on the website are primitive. All plots jam together without proper organization, and no log-scale plots available. Global data only have country total, no breakdown to states. Final Words Most of the other data sources I have seen are derived from one or more of these sources. If you see anything else worth mentioning, please don’t hesitate to leave me a comment. Thanks. Acknowledgment I want to thank my friend David Tian, a Machine Learning engineer, for his generous help on the Google Colab setup, and his valuable suggestions on this article. Check out his fun self-driving *DeepPiCar* blog. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 1 Coronavirus Data Science Data Visualization Covid 19 Data Analysis 1 clap Written by Jian Xu Follow Engineer, teacher, writer. Loves to explain complex problems in simple terms, and to solve real-world problems by technology. Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Write the first response Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
