https://towardsdatascience.com/hasnt-hiring-always-been-broken-91a2adfb721c?source=collection_category---4------5-----------------------
Hasn’t hiring always been broken? - Towards Data Science Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Hasn’t hiring always been broken? And why that new trendy AI recruiting startup will fail Jay Feng Follow Mar 27 · 4 min read Courtesy of thinknum.com Four years ago I joined a small startup called Jobr, marketed as the “Tinder for Jobs”. You would sign up, upload your resume, and then start swiping on jobs that were recommended to you. Swipe right to apply and swipe left to pass. I started as machine learning engineer tasked with improving the number of jobs that user’s applied to as it directly affected how much money we made from external job boards and partners. This proved to be challenging for a number of reasons. One was that people loved to not upload resumes and expect finely tuned, well-recommended jobs. They would complain in the app store reviews something like I’m studying for a computational linguistics masters degree, why are you showing me barista jobs? Another reason was that users were either highly selective or not selective at all. Many of our users, given the chance to treat their job hunt like their Tinder selections, would swipe right continuously, applying to thousands of jobs. We called them swipe bombers as they ironically generated us most of our revenue but were terrible quality. No one wanted a candidate that also applied to two thousand other jobs in the city. This eventually got Jobr in trouble. By reducing the quality of our applications, the swipe bombers flooded our job partners (who paid us per application), with low quality results. One partner ended up reducing their budget with us by 70% the next month after they realized how much quality declined. Application quality and quantity were inversely related and there wasn’t much that we could do. We would try to recommend enough good quality applications so that the job partners wouldn’t shut us off, but still try to maximize the quantity of applications to increase revenue. This kind of quality vs quantity relationship is very representative of the broader job market. Many jobs never suffer from a lack of volume, but rather quality applicants. But what exactly is a “quality” applicant? This was a question that perplexed us at Jobr. For some cases it was easy. If you were a truck driver applying to a truck driver job, that was definitely quality. But what if you were a truck driver applying to an administrative assistant job, well…..that’s tricky. Technically admin assistant is an entry level job, but quality could be dependent on if the job receives other past administrative assistants or not. I now understand most job quality measurements to be complete bullshit no matter how many new trendy hiring/recruiting startups tout how AI will revolutionize a company’s hiring process. At Jobr for example, our job partners couldn’t agree on quality measurements. One partner told us our percentage of quality applicants was 30% one month when another would say it was 15% for the same applicants. But let’s go even further down the funnel. Let’s say that a company has a great recruiter that can pretty accurately measure who will pass an interview from the resume screen. You go through the interview process but you didn’t sleep to well last night, maybe you’re distracted cause your kid got suspended from school for spitting in someone’s face, and your interviewer decides that day they want to question you on your knowledge of neural networks even though their last six months was spent making the database GDPR compliant. And then now suddenly your application has been marked as unqualified. But let’s say for fun that you pass an interview and your company is measuring high quality performers using a new shiny HR analytics software. It’s now your quarterly review and you feel like your manager just….kind of forgot about you? You think that your manager gives everyone on your team completely objective performance reviews, but your manager does smile a bit more with your co-worker. Yesterday you swear you heard them spend half of their one on one just talking about their shenanigans last weekend out at the bars. Could it be possible that your manager has given a review that constituted more of how much they liked or disliked someone rather than how well they performed?! Could it also be that maybe your manager’s own performance at their job is more dependent on how much that director likes them rather than revenue add in order to not cut your team’s budget next quarter in half? We can drill this down all we want, but at the end of the day, I think maybe the phrase the hiring process is broken is prevalent for a reason. In that every step of the funnel is fallible under human biases that ultimately affect many things outside of our control. Whether AI can really go through and measure the personality and nuances of human beings reasoning in the future, understand our motivations and inner-workings of corporations to correctly solve for the perfect system, I’m not entirely sure of. So next time if you’re wondering why you didn’t get that job, maybe blame it on human nature. If you’re interested in more articles like this check out my substack and the Interview Query blog. Alternatively if you have an opinion on this article or want some input in how your company does data science hiring, you can email me here. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 74 Data Science Hiring Data Scientists Data Scientist Career Job Search Hiring For Startup 74 claps Written by Jay Feng Follow Founder of https://www.interviewquery.com. Writes about data and the peculiarities of life at https://datastream.substack.com/ Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Write the first response More From Medium More from Jay Feng More from Jay Feng The Facebook Data Scientist Interview Jay Feng in Towards Data Science Nov 28, 2019 · 6 min read 549 More from Jay Feng More from Jay Feng The Twitter Data Scientist Interview Jay Feng in Towards Data Science Jan 15 · 5 min read 253 More from Jay Feng More from Jay Feng The LinkedIn Data Scientist Interview Jay Feng in Towards Data Science Dec 6, 2019 · 7 min read 290 Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
