https://towardsdatascience.com/using-regression-to-determine-the-most-important-social-factors-impacting-gdp-per-capita-2296f4f02dcf?source=collection_category---4------0-----------------------
Using Regression to determine the most important social factors impacting GDP per Capita Sign in Data Science Machine Learning Programming Visualization AI Video About Contribute Using Regression to determine the most important social factors impacting GDP per Capita Ranking the social factors based on the t statistic of the regression coefficient Gaurav Sinha Follow Mar 27 · 8 min read Introduction There are various indicators used by economists all over the world to measure prosperity and economic development of a country. One such indicator is GDP per capita. GDP or Gross Domestic Product of a country is the monetary value of the final goods and services produced in a country during a specified period of time. Larger countries with a larger population will tend to have higher GDP. So in order to remove this bias towards high population, GDP is divided by the total population of the country, which gives us GDP per capita of the country. A country’s development can be influenced by various economic as well as social factors. This article focuses only on the social factors impacting GDP per capita of a country. A total of seven social factors have been chosen for analysis. World Bank data has been used to gather all these features. Literacy: Adult literacy rate is the percentage of people ages 15 and above who can both read and write with understanding a short simple statement about their everyday life Poverty: Percentage of the total population living on less than $3.2 per day. Under slums: Percentage of the urban population living in slum household. Corruption: Score between -2.5 to 2.5 with a more positive score indicating less corruption. Government Effectiveness: It captures perceptions of the quality of public services, the quality of the civil service and the degree of its independence from political pressures, the quality of policy formulation and implementation, and the credibility of the government’s commitment to such policies. It is a score between -2.5 to 2.5 with a more positive value indicating better governance. Political Stability: Measures the absence of violence and terrorism. It is a score between -2.5 to 2.5 with a more positive value indicating more political stability. Adult Mortality: It is the number of people dying between the ages of 15 and 60 years per 1000. Objective The analysis uses regression to find whether the chosen factors impact GDP per capita. The study also tries to provide a ranking of the features based on their impact on GDP per Capita. The Stakeholders Government: Knowing the relative importance of the features impacting development, governments can plan to invest money and form policies in the right direction. Voters: Voters can use it as one of the measures to analyze a government’s work based on the knowledge of whether a government is focusing on important aspects or are its policies aimed at factors which do not contribute much towards a country’s development. The Changemakers: The individuals who want to make a difference in the development of a country can choose which direction to work on to make the most impact on a country’s growth. The Analysis The different features were collected from the World Bank data and were wrangled to convert them to the desired structure. Regression was used to determine the coefficients. For this purpose, all the features were scaled so that the weights obtained by fitting a regression model, corresponds to the relative importance of each feature. The result of fitting a linear regression model on the scaled features suggested that Literacy has no impact on GDP per Capita. This result seemed weird as literacy is always associated with development. To investigate this the individual explanatory variables were plotted to understand their relationship with the dependent variable GDP per Capita. This analysis revealed that the features were not linear which implied that a Linear regression model could not be fit on the given data as it is. The plot suggested that the maximum variation in the Y-axis was from 0 to 150,000 while maximum variation in the X-axis was from 0 to 100. So a distinct relation could not be identified between the GDP per Capita and other variables. Therefore log of GDP per capita was taken to make the two variations similar. After log transformation, the variation of the X-axis and Y-axis became similar and almost a linear trend could be identified between GDP per capita and other independent variables. For example, it could be seen from literacy plot that as literacy rate increases log of GDP per capita increases and similarly the trend could be observed for other variables too. This gave motivation for using GLM(Generalized linear model). From the above plot, the link function was clear that it would be alog link function as after log transformation the trend in the data appeared linear. Now the challenge was to determine which family of distribution to use in GLM. To get some idea, the pdf of the dependent variable was plotted : The shape of the above density and the fact that GDP per Capitawas a positive continuous quantity suggested that Gamma distribution could be used to model the density function. So a GLM was fitted on the scaled data with Gamma distribution family having log link function. A linear model was also fitted by log transforming the dependent variable GDP per Capita. It is not a good practice to transform the dependent variable if the model is built for prediction purpose. But here the main task is identifying the feature importance. Also, log being a monotonically increasing function does not affect interpretability. So a log-transformed linear model was used as a second model. Determining feature importance One of the most intuitive and simple ways to determine the relative importance of features is by directly assessing the weights associated with the scaled features obtained from the fitted regression model. But this does not take into account the error in determining the weights or in other words the confidence interval. So to mitigate this t statistic was used as the measure of importance as it also incorporates the error associated while calculating the weights. Code and detailed information The entire analysis was performed in R. For the detailed code and to understand the entire flow, how the data wrangling was performed, how some features causing collinearity were dealt and other minute details, do have a look at my jupyter notebook in my GitHub repository. The notebook contains a documented analysis of each step which will help to understand the analysis better. Result and Conclusion Out of the seven factors considered only the following four features had an independent impact on GDP per capita: Literacy Adult Mortality Government Effectiveness Political Stability The other three factors, Poverty, Under Slum and Corruption were dependent on the above four. Varying these four can change the value of the three dependent variables. Correlation Matrix The above image shows the correlation values of all the factors. The numeric value of correlation varies from 0 to 1. If the correlation of two features is close to 0, that means the two features are not at all related while if the correlation is closer to 1, the two features can be considered highly related. The negative values indicate that increasing one variable will lead to a decrease in another variable while a positive value indicates increasing one will increase the other. Under Slum: This variable has a very high negative correlation with literacy and a high positive correlation with adult mortality. This suggests the population under slum can be reduced by improving literacy and decreasing adult mortality or improving health. Below Poverty: This variable also has a very high negative correlation with literacy and a high positive correlation with adult mortality. So poverty can be decreased by increasing literacy and decreasing adult mortality or improving health. Corruption: Corruption has a very high positive correlation with Government Effectiveness. So an effective government can help in decreasing corruption i.e increase the corruption score as higher score represents lower corruption. The below image shows how the four independent features impact GDP per Capita: From the above image, it can be concluded that: Improving Literacy rate, Government Effectiveness and Political Stability leads to an increase in GDP per Capita. Decreasing adult mortality or improving health can lead to an increase in GDP per capita. Now we know how each of the four variables impacts GDP per capita, let us see which is the most important factor impacting it: Here two models have been analysed and both the models give the same result for the importance of features. The importance is directly proportional to the absolute value of t statistics obtained by fitting the two models. From the above two graphs, it can be observed that: Literacy is the most important factor impacting GDP per capita followed by Adult Mortality, then Government effectiveness and last political stability. Country comparison Let us look at the top 10 countries having the highest GDP per capita in 2018 The graph shows that Monaco has the highest GDP per capita among all the countries in 2018 and the United States ranks 10th. Comparison of India, China and the United States According to GDP per capita, the USA ranks 10th, China 90th and India 182nd. There is a similar difference in literacy rates. USA and China have a very high literacy rate of 99% and 97% respectively while India lags far behind at 74%. According to Wikipedia, the USA spent 5% of its GDP on education in 2014. In 2016, China spent 4% of its GDP on education. On the other hand, India spent only 3% of its GDP on education in 2019. This shows a serious concern. Both the USA and China have a very high literacy rate, to catch up with them India needs to spend much more than them on education. Towards Data Science A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow 6 Regression Data Science Gdp Growth Development Machine Learning 6 claps Written by Gaurav Sinha Follow Master of Data Science student at the University of British Columbia, Vancouver. I like to use my data science knowledge to solve real-life problems. Follow Towards Data Science Follow A Medium publication sharing concepts, ideas, and codes. Follow Write the first response More From Medium More from Gaurav Sinha More from Gaurav Sinha What are Random Variables Gaurav Sinha in Towards Data Science Jan 12 · 5 min read 3 Also tagged Regression Also tagged Regression A Practical Suggestion in Linear Regression Yufeng in Towards Data Science Mar 25 · 5 min read 13 Also tagged Machine Learning Also tagged Machine Learning 5 Premium Courses You Can Access For Free This Month Liana Mehrabyan in Towards Data Science Mar 27 · 3 min read 225 Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal
